Alchemist (ALC)
A forsaken stalks the ruins of a murloc village, picking eyes and bits of flesh. As a skulking murloc prepares to jump out at her, she casually tosses a potion at its chest without glancing at it, causing the skin to bubble and blacken with a terrible—the last thing it sees are the forsaken’s fingers reaching forward to take out its light.

A gnome reaches down to his box of alchemist’s supplies, picking a rare herb and some pinches of sea salt, before tossing them into a small battle-beaker warmed by a portable burner. With uncanny calm, he weighs the curative mixture, before delivering it to a dying friend, revivifying her. 

Laughing maniacally as he consumes his potion, the troll rushes into the fight, fingertips mutating into razor-sharp claws, muscles growing larger, and skin hardening as his eyes gleam with the promise of pain.

A goblin mercenary sits on the back of a drugged ogre, tossing explosive potions. Wincing as a human warrior stabs his giant homunculus, he pulls out a potion from his side pouch and jams it down the ogre’s throat. The crunch of teeth against glass invigorates the ogre, and, with a burp, it tosses its arm forward with great strength, tossing the human away as the alchemist laughs in triumph. 

Whether by careful measuring, self-experimentation, explosive mixtures, or supportive potions, an alchemist utilizes their own mix of magic and science, alchemical science, to support and heal wounds, decimate enemies, manifest unusual effects, or augment themselves to wade into battle. These lightly armored individuals are expert in creating a variety of special effects, from temporary explosives to elixirs that revive the dead.

MAGIC AND SCIENCE
In the Warcraft universe, alchemy is not merely pseudo-chemistry—it is an art that draws power from the primal elements of life, not unlike actual magic. An alchemist is a master of the art who takes it leaps and bounds further than their peers, who are limited in their alchemical products to mere healing poultices and anti-toxins, reaching heights of reviving the dead or manifesting massive explosives. 
The greatest strength of an alchemist is their versatility. They are able to defend themselves adequately, but can specialize into being battle-chemists who augment themselves with potions before tearing their enemies apart by their own hands. They can choose to focus on the augmentative powers of their mixtures, delaying harm and healing wounds, or to debilitate their enemies with negative status effects. Damage dealt by an alchemist’s potions usually focus on concussive or poison damage, but they are also broad in scope, dealing fire or frost or lighting as required of them. The better they anticipate their opposition, the better the alchemist can prepare. 
The success of alchemists relies greatly on the formulae and recipes they have in their formula books. They gain new formulae as they gain experience, study other formula books, or research independently. 

THE WEIGHT OF KNOWLEDGE
Alchemists’ lives may appear mundane, starting as a sage, independent researcher under a mage tower, a plague researcher, or member of a military force’s supply chain. Other alchemists focus on trade, opening alchemy shops and selling anything from curative mixtures to love potions. Others still have adapted their talents to violence, such as serving in mercenary forces or the military, sapping structural defenses and focusing on combat support. 
The weight of knowledge and the demand for versatile potions calls for even the most sedentary alchemists to venture out to investigate strange happenings, support their friends, or answer the call to heroism. 

Alchemists are students, researchers, and scientists of the mysterious science of alchemy. 
To choose to alchemist class is to be more than a dabbler in the art of alchemy—they are utilizers of strange techniques that would empower themselves and their allies, experienced craftspeople who can make potions for fractions of the normal time and cost, and some have even modified their bodies to make full use of their skills. 
Creating poisons, potions, special explosives, and empowering substances, alchemists are either curiosities, prized members of society, or reclusive, feared experts in unstable weird sciences. Alchemy itself is does not fall strictly in one end between science and magic, but is a potent force nonetheless. 
Alchemists support soldiers and adventurers, and could easily take to the field themselves, brewing and concoct potions, poisons, and poultices to support (or create) allies on the field. Some work to support their communities, others attempt to replicate (or surpass) the work of the Scourge's necromancers, and others focus on self-empowering through strange concoctions they imbibe. 

CREATING AN ALCHEMIST
As you make your alchemist character, consider the origins of their knowledge: were they self-taught, a student of another alchemist, or did they gain this mastery by esoteric means? Alchemy is a difficult discipline—how did you accomplish the challenge to gain your status? Were you motivated by war, fortune, or by another mean entirely, such as the lack of magical talent to become a spellcaster? 
Perhaps you preferred the reliable mundane science of alchemy over the unexpected extraordinary power of magic, or took comfort in the fact that you were in demand in an urban setting—there is no lack of adventurers who might need your aid as an alchemist if you yourself do not wish to go out and adventure. Do you have any peers among alchemists? Do they perceive your approach to the science as calm and intellectual, or rash but with great breakthroughs, or a dangerous form of meddling with life and death that should not be tolerated? Do you have a special ambition or goal to achieve as an alchemist—such as making magic-like effects accessible to the mundane public, providing affordable healing and counters to common ailments, or are your creations for your own monetary benefit?

QUICK BUILD 
You can make an alchemist quickly by following these suggestions. First, Intelligence should be your highest ability score. Make Agility your next-highest if you want to use ranged or finesse weapons, or focus on throwing potions and explosives. Use Strength instead if you wish to empower yourself in battle and engage in combat via the mutate spell. Second, choose the guild artisan or scholar backgrounds. Third, choose the noxious fumes (poison spray), minor alchemy, and fire bolt cantrips, along with the following 1st-level spells for your formula book: burning hands, explosion, mutate, and rejuvenation.

CLASS FEATURES
As an alchemist, you have the following class features.
HIT POINTS
Hit Dice 1d8 per alchemist level
Hit Points at 1st Level 8 + your Stamina modifier
Hit Points at Higher Levels 1d8 (or 5) + your Stamina modifier per alchemist level after 1st

PROFICIENCIES
Armor: Light armor
Weapons: Simple weapons, hand crossbows, maces, explosives, and short swords.
Tools: Alchemist’s supplies, and poisoner’s kit
Saving Throws: Intelligence, Stamina
Skills: Choose four from Acrobatics, Athletics, Insight, Investigation, Medicine, Perception, Persuasion, Sleight of Hand, and Stealth. 

EQUIPMENT
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
•	(a) A club or (b) a shortsword
•	(a) A sling or (b) a hand crossbow with 20 bolts
•	(a) A dungeoneer’s pack, or (b) an explorer’s pack
•	Leather armor, alchemist's supplies
•	Formula book, 250 gp worth of alchemy materials (can be spend on character creation)

Alchemist Class
Level	Proficiency	Features				Rarity		Caster level
(Spell level)
1st	+2		Alchemy, Cantrips, Quick Potions 	Common	1 (1st)
Weird Science
2nd	+2		Efficient Alchemy			Common	2 (1st)
3rd	+2		Alchemy Path				Common	3 (2nd)
4th	+2		Ability Score Improvement		Common 	4 (2nd)
5th	+3		–					Uncommon	5 (3rd)
6th	+3		Path Feature				Uncommon	6 (3rd)
7th	+3		Mettle					Uncommon	7 (4th)
8th	+3		Ability Score Improvement		Uncommon	8 (4th)
9th	+4		Multiple Potions			Uncommon	9 (5th)
10th	+4		Path Feature				Rare		10 (5th)
11th	+4		Expert Chemist				Rare		11 (6th)
12th	+4		Ability Score Improvement		Rare		12 (6th)
13th	+5		Internal Clock				Very Rare	13 (7th)
14th	+5		Path Feature				Very Rare	14 (7th)
15th 	+5		–					Very Rare	15 (8th)
16th	+5		Ability Score Improvement		Very Rare	16 (8th)
17th	+6		–					Legendary	17 (9th)
18th	+6		Internal Clock (no reaction)		Legendary 	18 (9th)
19th	+6		Ability Score Improvement		Legendary 	19 (9th)
20th	+6		Synthesized Potions			Legendary 	20 (9th)

Alchemy. When starting with this class, you have proficiency with alchemist’s supplies and can use them with uncanny skill. You can create alchemical mixtures from any spell that belongs to the alchemist spell list, so long as you have the alchemical formula. This does not actually allow you to cast spells, only to know them enough to create potions. Each level in the alchemist class provides you with 1 caster level for the purposes of accessing alchemical formulae, as appropriate to the alchemist spell list. 

Cantrips
At 1st level, you know a number of cantrips equal to your proficiency bonus. As normal for alchemist spells, you cannot cast them, but can turn them into potions. Cantrips do not require a formula book, and are always memorized. 

Conjuring and Binding 
An alchemist can conjure and bind aberrations, constructs, elementals, oozes, plants, and undead, as well homunculi creatures (creatures with the homunculus template). 
This is usually done by crafting miniature versions and preparing them in potions or globes of alchemical mixtures. 

Preparing and Casting Spells
Each alchemist level provides you with one caster level in the alchemist class (minimum 1). You follow the normal progression to unlock spell levels (see the table under the Mana section). You may not prepare spells, but can brew them into potions, so long as you have your formulae book or have memorized the formula. 
When you level up, you can exchange a spell known with another you qualify for. You cannot otherwise change your alchemist spells other than by leveling up and exchanging them, or by training under another alchemist, fiend, celestial, or undead creature (see tutorship under magic).

Spellcasting Ability
Intelligence is your spellcasting ability for your alchemist spells and abilities, since your powers draw upon your scientific prowess. You use your Intelligence modifier whenever a spell refers to your spellcasting ability. In addition, you use your Intelligence modifier when setting the saving throw DC for an alchemist effect you create and when making an attack roll with one. 

Spell save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier
Spell attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier

Spellbook – Formula Book
At 1st level, your formula book contains four 1st-level alchemist spells of your choice. When you level up, you gain 2 additional alchemist spells of your choice. You may also acquire new spells by research, tutelage, or by deriving formulae from the spellbooks and scrolls of spellcasters who have spell versions of the formulae on your spell list. 
Your formula book is effectively your spellbook, and you may add spells by studying with it and replicating experiments found in other formula books. 

Quick Potions 
Also at 1st level, you create quick potions with less preparation than normal. This costs an action (or the casting time of the spell, whichever takes longer) to create the quick potion. The potion’s spell level is limited to the maximum alchemist spell level you can access. You can use this feature a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus. You regain expended uses after you complete a short or long rest, so long as you have alchemist’s supplies. You can have one active potion through this feature at any given time, unless the potion is of a cantrip. 
If you choose to create a quick potion out of a cantrip, this does not consume a use of this ability, and you can maintain two quick potions of cantrips. Furthermore, you can roll twice on the miscibility table and choose the result when mixing two quick potions of cantrips. For this purpose, you cannot a
Quick potions do not cost money or mana, except if the spell has material components (which must be provided as normal), or other resource or conditions (which must be supplied by you). A quick potion is best used by you, and has a 50% failure chance when used by another character (including other alchemists). You can turn a quick potion into a regular potion (though this takes the normal crafting time and costs associated). Quick potions are instantly recognizable upon sight by anyone who has seen a regular potion. 

Weird Science
Also at 1st level, you may choose a weird science or avenue of natural talent to focus your alchemical powers upon. Choose one of the following choices. 
•	Homunculus. You gain a companion that is a humanoid, undead, or construct with the homunculus template. See Bound Companions for more details. The companion can use your potions as if it was you. Its CR is equal to 1/4th your alchemist level, and it retains a shadow of free will, but can be commanded to go against its nature (or what it perceives as its nature) with a DC 15 Charisma check. Bonding with a homunculus requires spending one hour communicating with the creature by means it can understand, and spending the next seven hours in bonding activities (fixing/healing/conversing/etc.).
•	Explosive Potions. You can quick create potions of the explosion spell. This feature can be used the same number of times as the Quick Potions feature (each ability has their own number of uses). Unlike with normal quick potions, these potions can be created and thrown with a single attack action. You also memorize the explosion spell, and can add it to your formula book. 
•	Quick Reactions. You also gain the Flash Bomber rogue talent, but it may only be used with alchemical items. 

Efficient Alchemy
Starting at 2nd level, your ability to whip up quick potions increases your efficiency in creating normal potions. You reduce the crafting cost for potions from one-half to one-quarter buying price. 
Crafting potions are also one step of complexity faster. This does not also reduce the cost of spell material components. 

Alchemy Path
When you reach 3rd level, you walk a path that defines you as your path of alchemy. Up to this time you have been in a preparatory stage, committed to a path but not yet fully enveloped in it. Now you choose the Path of the Mutant for self-transmutation and improving your combat abilities, Path of the Transmutor for theoretical pursuits and advanced alchemical effects, or Path of the Apothecary to go beyond morality and mortality and dabble in death and life magics, all detailed at the end of the class description.
Your choice grants you features at 3rd level and again at 6th, 10th, and 14th level. Those features include path spells.

Path Spells
Each path has a list of associated spells. You gain access to these spells at the levels specified in the path description. Once you gain access to a path spell, you always have it known and memorized. Path spells do not need to be stored in the alchemical notebook.
If you gain a path spell that doesn’t appear on the alchemist spell list, the spell is nonetheless an alchemist spell for you.

Ability Score Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature.

Mettle
Starting at 7th level, your exposure and experimentations in alchemy left your body more resilient to certain effects, such as a rogue’s poison gas or a stinking cloud spell. When you are subjected to an effect that allows you to make a Stamina saving throw to take only half damage or a reduced effect, you instead take no damage or effect if you succeed on the saving throw, and only half damage (or the reduced effect) if you fail. 
For example, a clay golem’s reduction to maximum hit points is negated on a successful saving throw, and you take half the effect if you fail. 

Multiple Potions
Starting at 9th level, you may maintain two quick potions at the same time. 

Expert Chemist
Starting at 11th level, whenever you deliver a poison, disease, or potion, you increase the DC, damage, or duration of the effect increases by 2 points or two rounds (if possible). 

Internal Clock
Starting at 13th level, whenever you make a potion and consume it, you can choose to keep its effects latent until a condition you specify. When said condition comes to pass, the potion activates as if you just consumed it, and costs you a reaction. 
You can have a number of potions stored this way equal to your proficiency bonus. If the potion has a casting time more than 1 action, it must remain latent for a minimum duration equal to the casting time first. These potions do not incur miscibility, even if consumed at the same time. 
Starting at 18th level, activating a potion on your internal clock costs no reaction.

Synthesized Potions
Starting at 20th level, you can create synthesized potions. A synthesized potion has the benefit of one potion of a specific rarity, and includes the effect of another potion of a rarity two steps below. For example, the rare-quality Globe of Invulnerability potion can be synthesized with a common quality healing potion. This costs the normal cost of the potion plus half the cost of the secondary potion. 
You can possess an indefinite number of synthesized potions, but create only one every 24 hours. 

Alchemy Paths
Path of the Apothecary
You recognize no boundary of morality or faith in your pursuit of weird science. Reaching beyond the realms of experiment to dissect the supernatural, you employ necromancy, soul magic, and unusual diseases and poisons. Apothecaries usually dress as plague doctors or experimenters, dealing with death and strange occult things for reasons only they know. 

Apothecary Path Spells
Level	Spells
3rd	Conjure undead (animate undead), curse of agony 
5th	Rune array (vampiric), ray of enfeeblement 
9th	Feign death, stinking cloud
13th	Confusion, cripple
17th	Contagion, flesh to stone

Plague Zombies. Upon gaining this archetype at 3rd level, you learn to imbue any undead creature you create or control by your potions with any poison or disease of your choice. 
You may imbue any corporeal undead with one dosage of a poison or disease per proficiency bonus, and allowing the creature to act as a carrier. It can then apply the poison, depending on the poison’s vector, as below:
•	Inhaled poisons or diseases can be exhaled as an action, affecting creatures within 5 feet (plus 5 feet per size category above Medium).
•	Contact poisons or diseases can be delivered with a successful melee weapon attack that inflicts the disease. The attacker cannot add their ability modifier to damage for this attack. 
•	Ingested poisons or diseases can be projected onto edible food or drink as an action; affecting a well can affect up to three people per dose.
•	Injury poisons or diseases can be delivered with a successful attack; one dose is delivered with each successful attack.

Repair Flesh. Also starting at 3rd level, your alchemist spells and potions that heal the living on your spell list can heal undead and constructs (such as rejuvenation and heal). A given creature must be studied for at least one hour before you may adapt your alchemy to heal them, however. For instance, studying a forsaken for one hour allows you to heal all forsaken with the holy light spell if manifested as an alchemist spell (or potion).

Necromantic Mastery. Starting at 6th level, you add all spells of the Necromancy school from the Mage spell list to the Alchemist spell list, and can make potions out of them.

Biohazard. Starting at 10th level, you can secrete or develop poisons and diseases in your body. You may declare development of a disease or poison 24 hours before you can secrete it. After 24 hours have passed, you can conjure a number of doses of the chosen poison or disease equal to your proficiency bonus, with no maximum rarity higher than your maximum potion rarity, or DC higher than 10 + half your class level. This can be done once in a 24-hour circle.
You cannot develop a disease or poison that would otherwise affect you in this way. Gaining acquired immunity to poisons or diseases also requires only one-quarter the normal time. 
See the Poisoner’s Kit for the ability to gain immunities against diseases or poisons.

Soul Science. Starting at 14th level, whenever you create or summon undead, homunculi, or constructs via alchemy (as with the conjure spell), you may grant the creature Blindsight against living and undead creatures, as well as constructs and devices that work off an electrical source. The Blindsight only works up to 60 feet, but the creature is not blind beyond that radius. 

Path of the Mutant
You push your body past the normal limit—mutation is no mere rage of chemical reaction; it is a secret science only you know. Mutants are often ostracized by society, which sees such unstable people to be dangerous and fickle in their moods.

Mutant Path Spells
Level	Spells
3rd	Absorb elements, mage armor
5th	Alter self, berserker rage
9th	Fly, gaseous form
13th	Cripple, stoneskin
17th	Flesh to stone, true seeing

Greater Mutate. Upon gaining this archetype at 3rd level, you treat any mutate spell you benefit from as if it were heightened one level for no cost, allowing certain mutations to become stronger. This also applies to any homunculus you have. You furthermore have the mutate spell memorized. You also gain proficiency in Strength saving throws.

Mutate Potion. Also starting at 3rd level, you can spend a use of your quick potions ability to change any potion you have into the rejuvenation spell of the same spell level (up to the maximum spell level of the spell you can access). You also add the rejuvenation spell to your formula book, if you didn’t already have it. 

Super Mutant. Starting at 6th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn. This only applies when you benefit from the mutate spell. 
Furthermore, you no longer gain exhaustion from the berserker rage spell, and you do not lose your action when the haste spell ends for you. 

Battle Chemist. Starting on 10th level, you gain the Flash Bomber rogue talent. These uses stack with the Weird Science feature (if you already chose it). 
Also, whenever you are in the area of effect of the explosion spell (regardless of origin), you can benefit from the berserker rage spell for 3 rounds. 

Greater Internal Clock. Starting at 14th level, you treat your proficiency bonus as if 2 points higher for the purposes of how many potions you can have active under your Internal Clock ability. Also, your Internal Clock ability would activate, you may choose to withhold benefitting from it up to 1 minute. If you do not declare use of the ability (reaction if not in your turn, bonus action if it is) it fades at the end of the duration.

Path of the Transmutor
Whereas the apothecary dabbles with the line between life and death, and the mutant experiments on themselves, you handle alchemy as a science and a tool, and are considered a more ‘classical’ alchemist. Transmutors are appreciated in societies, often serving in courts or in magical circles to quantify the true nature of alchemy, sicknesses, and magic. In adventuring parties, they often focus on support.

Transmutor Path Spells
Level	Spells
3rd	Fog cloud, holy light 
5th	Create food and water, see invisibility
9th	Haste, revivify
13th	Polymorph, resilient sphere
17th	Modify memory, telepathic bond

Fortifying Chemistry. Upon gaining this archetype at 3rd level, you may enhance any potion you handle for at least 1 minute to grant the imbiber temporary hit points equal to your alchemist level. These hit points remain for 1 hour, and can stack, but cannot exceed double the target’s maximum hit points. 

Medical Expert. Also starting at 3rd level, you gain proficiency with an Herbalism Kit and the Spirit (Medicine) skill, if you didn’t already have proficiency. Furthermore, whenever you expend a use of a Healer’s Kit as an action to treat a creature, the target can expend one hit dice. A creature can benefit from this ability once per short rest. 
Whenever you expend a use of a Healer’s Kit, you can roll a DC 20 Intelligence check with Alchemist Supplies. If you succeed, you do not expend a use of the kit. 

Secrets of Alchemy. Starting at 6th level, you learn and memorize how to create an Philosopher’s Stone and the transmute material spell. You can transmute a mineral once per short rest instead of once per long rest, and you further memorize the alchemical composition of two minerals (as recipes), allowing you to turn one mineral to another. Whenever you would gain an alchemical recipe from leveling up, you may choose a mineral recipe instead. 

Augmentation. Upon reaching 10th level, you can augment a potion you hold by spending 1 minute or a use of your quick potions feature. An augmented potion remains augmented indefinitely, but you can only have up to one potion augmented at any given time. You can apply the following augmentations:
•	Every dice your potion rolls is maximized. 
•	Every dice your potion rolls is minimized (lowest result on the roll). 
•	When the potion is used, roll a d100. On a result of 50 or higher, the potion gives its full effects with only a fraction of the actual content, allowing the potion to be reused. 
•	You alter your potion to activate in response to a trigger you choose and that can affect the potion’s contents, such as time passed, being shaken a certain way, or being touched by an eligible target. This does not stack with the Internal Clock feature. 
For instance, if you can create an exorcism potion, you can coat a sword with it to activate in response to touching an eligible target of the spell, or to activate after 1 minute to counter a possible possession. 

Greater Augmentation. Upon reaching 16th level, you can augment up to three potions at any given time. You can also apply the following additional augmentations:
•	Your potion also has the effects of a dispel magic or mana burn spell, with the spell level two spell levels lower than the potion’s original spell level (minimum 1). If the potion has no replicated spell level, the effective level is instead equal to the lowest spell level the spell can be cast. 
•	Your potion also has the benefits of the protection from poison, protection from energy, or remove curse spells. 
•	Your potion allows the target to add their proficiency bonus to one saving throw of their choice. They cannot apply this to a saving throw in which they are already proficient. This remains up to 1 hour. 
•	Your potion has a 25% chance to enhance the imbiber with increased lifeforce. If the target is reduced to 0 hit points or dies within 4 hours of imbibing the potion, they are affected with the revivify spell. The potion must replicate a spell level of 6 or higher to gain this augmentation. 

Death Knight (DKN)
Clad in armor streaked with warm blood, the human’s eyes glow in a cold blue light as he swings his greatsword with precise fury, keep foes occupied with him. As he does so, his allies around him watch as his wounds seem to heal by vampiric-like magic even as the enemy falls. 

Standing tall against the oncoming horde, a blood elf embraces the frozen resolve within to shrug off her enemies’ attacks. Imbuing her twin shortswords with the power of the frozen north, her attacks break through their armor with reckless abandon, sending icy bits of armor, bone, and flesh flying. 

A dwarf gazes over the battlefield alone, remembering a past life when he commanded legions of his brethren to defend their homelands. No longer the same dwarf, he raises his hand, binding the corpses to undeath, once more in the position of command, old loyalties broken in death.

Years after the destruction of Draenor, the immensely powerful Lich King created a new breed of death knights: malevolent, rune-wielding warriors of the Scourge. The first and greatest of these was the Lich King's chosen champion, Prince Arthas Menethil. Once a mighty paladin of the Silver Hand, the prince sacrificed his soul to claim the runeblade Frostmourne in a desperate bid to save his people, and having his soul bound for eternal servitude under the Lich King. The rest are primarily made up of other fallen paladins whose souls were twisted and bound to the will of the Frozen Throne.
Like Gul'dan's death knights, these dark champions possess unholy strength; they, however, do not possess free will and their minds are inexorably entwined with and dominated by the Lich King's vast consciousness. Despite the potential loss of free will, some powerful mortals are intrigued by the promise of immortality and pledge their souls freely into the Lich King's service to achieve it.
In the years since Arthas shattered the Frozen Throne and merged with the Lich King, the power and fury of the death knights has only grown. Now these unrelenting crusaders of the damned eagerly await the Lich King's command to unleash their fury on Azeroth once again. 
Unlike death knights of the Old Horde, the Scourge's death knights are not limited to their use of ranged spell casting abilities. In addition, these tireless death knights are considerably stronger, faster, and more agile than they were in life. However, both generations are equally destructive and terrifying to engage in the field of battle.

FALLEN PROTECTORS
Most death knights were once virtuous defenders of humanity and truth as paladins. However, once the paladin ranks were disbanded by the failing Alliance, many of these holy warriors traveled to the quarantined lands to ease the suffering of those left within the plague-ridden colonies. 
Though the paladins were resistant to disease, they were persecuted by the general populace who believed that they had been infected by the foul plague. A small band of paladins, embittered by society's cruelty, traveled north to find the plague's source. These renegade knights succumbed to bitter hatred over the course of their grueling quest. 
When they finally reached Ner'zhul's icy fortress in Northrend they had become dark and brooding. The Lich King offered them untold power in exchange for their services and loyalty. The weary, vengeful warriors accepted his dark pact, and although they retained their humanity, their twisted souls were bound to his evil will for all time. Bestowed with black, vampiric Runeblades and shadowy steeds, death knights serve as the Scourge's mightiest generals. 

RELEASED FROM SERVICE
When the Lich King's control of his death knights was broken, his former champions sought revenge for the horrors committed under his command. After their vengeance was won, the death knights found themselves without a cause and without a home. One by one they trickled into the land of the living in search of a new purpose.
The Knights of the Ebon Blade is a faction consisting of the renegade death knights that broke free of the Lich King's control after the battle of Light's Hope Chapel. Led by Highlord Darion Mograine, the Knights of the Ebon Blade have allied themselves with the Alliance and the Horde with the help of Highlord Tirion Fordring of the Knights of the Silver Hand, and have pledged to do their part in defeating their former master, the Lich King. Their main base is Acherus: The Ebon Hold, taken from the Scourge after breaking free. 

CREATING A DEATH KNIGHT
When creating your Death Knight, consider your relationship with the person or being that resurrected you. Do you know who it was, or why they brought you back from death? Do you feel indebted to them for giving you a second chance at life, or are you angry that they took you away from your eternal rest? 
Death knights often have terrible stories to tell that ended with their deaths. Consider your story before your death—if you were once a paladin, consider the oath you took. Do you remember it? Do you choose to follow those tenets again, or forsake your paladin teachings and follow a new path? If you were a noble or important member of your society, how do you cope with their expectations and your role? What evils have you committed under the Lich King’s dominion? Have you committed crimes that you secretly approve of, such as murder of a noble of your old life who let you down, or ended old rivalries? Have you been commanded to use your power to raise the dead, and have you had a choice in raising anyone you once knew?
Also, consider if and how you will attempt to reintegrate with society; most citizens of Azeroth fear and suspect the intentions of death knights, and might try to sabotage their acceptance. Have you wronged anyone who might oppose your reentry into society? Will you accept being separate from all factions, and choose to take up quests with only like-minded individuals?

QUICK BUILD
You can make a death knight quickly by following these suggestions. First, Strength should be your highest ability score, followed by Charisma. Second, choose the noble or criminal background. 

CLASS FEATURES
As a death knight, you have the following class features.
HIT POINTS
Hit Dice 1d10 per death knight level
Hit Points at 1st Level 10 + your Stamina modifier
Hit Points at Higher Levels 1d10 (or 6) + your Stamina modifier per death knight level after 1st

PROFICIENCIES
Armor: All armor, shields
Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons
Tools: None
Saving Throws: Strength, Spirit
Skills: Choose four from Athletics, Insight, Intimidation, Medicine, Deception, and Religion. 

EQUIPMENT
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
•	(a) a martial weapon and a shield or (b) two martial weapons
•	(a) five javelins or (b) any simple melee weapon
•	(a) a priest’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack
•	Chain mail and an unholy symbol

SPECIAL 
Corruption
Upon gaining a level in this class, you may permanently pledge your soul as well, turning yourself into an undead creature (permanently gaining the below Undead Nature ability, and counting as the undead creature type). 

Undead Nature. You don’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. You are also immune to nonmagical poisons and diseases, and have advantage to effects that cause the exhausted and poisoned conditions. 

Also, an uncorrupted draenei who takes on the mantle of death knight may alter their Gift of the Naaru ability, casting the Death Hex spell instead, as the draenei takes a unique shadow-fel shade of their Eredar heritage in exchange of the holy powers of the Naaru. This extremely uncommon sacrifice also takes its toll on the draenei’s body, slowly morphing their appearance through extended exposure to fel magic to be more like the Eredar, but turning their skin sickly pale blue instead of red.

Rune-Bound
Upon gaining a level in this class, you can turn one (of both, if using two weapons to fight) of your weapons into Runeblades, a weapon infused with the might of the Lich King and his blessing. 
Runeblades have three benefits: 
•	They serve as spellbooks and store spells (as described under Spellcasting). 
•	You gain advantage to saving throws against any effect that controls your character or alters their alignment against the Lich King’s will while using them.
•	The blade serves as an unholy symbol. 
•	The runeblade is a greater attunement weapon (see Chapter 5: Equipment). 
You cannot have multiple Runeblades (beyond the one you choose or two you fight with). If lost, the blade usually finds its way back to you (or you to it) due to the bond you share. 

Death Knight Class 
Level	Proficiency	Features				Caster level (Spell level)
1st	+2		Divine Sense, Corrupting Touch		-
2nd	+2		Fighting Style, Runic Strike, Spellcasting	1 (1st level)
3rd	+2		Aura (Abandonment), Dark Path		2 (1st level)
4th	+2		Ability Score Improvement		2 (1st level)
5th	+3		Extra Attack				3 (2nd level)
6th	+3		Cursed Carrier, Aura (Necrotic)		3 (2nd level)
7th	+3		Dark Path Feature			4 (2nd level)
8th	+3		Ability Score Improvement		4 (2nd level)
9th	+4		-					5 (3rd level)
10th	+4		Aura (Unholy)				5 (3rd level)
11th	+4		Improved Runic Strike			6 (3rd level)
12th	+4		Ability Score Improvement		6 (3rd level)
13th	+5		-					7 (4th level)
14th	+5		Dispelling Touch, Aura (Distracting)	7 (4th level)
15th	+5		Dark Path Feature			8 (4th level)
16th	+5		Ability Score Improvement		8 (4th level)
17th	+6		-					9 (5th level)
18th	+6		Aura (Vulnerability), Aura Improvement	9 (5th level) 
19th	+6		Ability Score Improvement		10 (5th level)
20th	+6		Dark Path Feature			10 (5th level)

Divine Sense
The presence of strong evil registers on your senses like a noxious odor, and powerful good rings like heavenly music in your ears. As an action, you can open your awareness to detect such forces. Until the end of your next turn, you know the location of any celestial, fiend, or undead within 60 feet of you that is not behind total cover. 
You know the type (celestial, fiend, or undead) of any being whose presence you sense, but not its identity (the lich Kel’Thuzad, for instance). Within the same radius, you also detect the presence of any place or object that has been consecrated or desecrated, as with the hallow spell.
You can use this feature a number of times equal to 1 + your Charisma modifier. 
When you finish a long rest, you regain all expended uses.

Corrupting Touch
Your cursed touch can cause unholy wounds. As an action, you may perform a corrupting touch on a target, investing them with damaging energies. For every mana point you spend for Corrupting Touch, you heal a number of hit points equal to your proficiency bonus if targeting an undead or fiend. Amount you heal is instead treated as shadow damage for living creatures (in which case, this requires a melee spell attack). Excess hit points are lost. When performing Corrupting Touch on yourself, this is instead a bonus action, and you are always healed by this ability, regardless of your creature type. 
Alternatively, you can expend the mana to inflict one disease or one poison of your choice. Each disease or poison requires spending mana points equal to one-quarter the saving throw DC of the poison or disease. You may inflict multiple diseases or poisons this way. You can choose be a carrier to up to three separate poisons or diseases on your person. You need previous exposure to a poison or disease to be a carrier. 
This feature has no effect on constructs. 

Spellcasting
By 2nd level, you have learned to draw on divine magic through meditation and prayer to cast spells as a paladin does. 

Conjuring and Binding 
A death knight can conjure and bind aberrations, fiends, and undead. 

Preparing and Casting Spells
Each death knight level provides you with 0.5 caster levels in the death knight class (minimum 0). You follow the normal progression to unlock spell levels (see the table under the Mana section).
You can change your list of prepared spells by consulting your runeblade’s runes (treat as a spellbook), which takes 1 minute per spell level to alter the readied spell. 
You prepare the list of death knight spells that are available for you to cast, choosing from the death knight spell list. 
You can also change your list of prepared spells when you finish a long rest by training and studying your Runeblade (treat as a spellbook). Preparing a new list of death knight spells requires time spent in prayer and re-attuning to the spell-runes: at least 1 minute per spell level for each spell on your list.

Spellcasting Ability
Charisma is your spellcasting ability for your death knight spells, since their power derives from the strength of your convictions. You use your Charisma whenever a spell refers to your spellcasting ability. In addition, you use your Charisma modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a death knight spell you cast and when making an attack roll with one.
Spell save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier
Spell attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier

Spellbook – Runeblade
At 2nd level, your runeblade contains three 1st-level death knight spells of your choice. When you level up, you gain 2 additional death knight spells of your choice. You may also acquire new spells by research, tutelage, or from the spellbooks and scrolls of spellcasters who have spells you can cast. 
Your runeblade is effectively your spellbook, and you may add spells by scribing with runic inks. You can choose to store your death knight spells in a spellbook instead or as runes on any other surface as well. 

Spellcasting Focus
You can use an unholy symbol as a spellcasting focus for your death knight spells, or you can treat your runeblade as your focus.

Fighting Style
At 2nd level, you adopt a style of fighting as your specialty. Choose one of the following options. You can’t take a Fighting Style option more than once, even if you later get to choose again.

Defense
While you are wearing armor, you gain a +1 bonus to AC.

Dueling
When you are wielding a melee weapon in one hand and no other weapons, you gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls with that weapon.

Great Weapon Fighting
When you roll a 1 or 2 on a damage die for an attack you make with a melee weapon that you are wielding with two hands, you can reroll the die and must use the new roll. The weapon must have the two-handed or versatile property for you to gain this benefit.

Two-Weapon Fighting
When you engage in two-weapon fighting, you can add your ability modifier to the damage of the second attack.

Runic Strike
Starting at 2nd level, when you hit a creature with a melee weapon attack, you can expend mana equal to one death knight spell to deal shadow damage to the target, in addition to the weapon’s damage. 
The extra damage is 2d8 for a 1st-level spell, plus 1d8 for each spell level higher than 1st, to a maximum of 5d8. The damage increases by 1d8 if the target is a celestial or a follower of the Holy Light (or if not a follower, one who merely uses it). 
If you have a rune active, you may also perform a Runic Strike without expending mana (called Runic Release), terminating the effects of the rune (plus an additional effect depending on the seal). Despite the name, Runic Strike does not count as a Strike effect. 

Death Knight
Aura
Starting at 3rd level, your mastery over aura spells begins to manifest. You always have the following aura spells prepared. 
•	At 3rd level, you always have the abandonment aura spell prepared.
•	At 6th level, you always have the necrotic aura spell prepared.
•	At 10th level, you always have the unholy aura spell prepared.
•	At 14th level, you always have the distraction aura spell prepared.
•	At 18th level, you always have the vulnerability aura spell prepared.
Furthermore, you may cast each of the above aura spells for no cost once upon reaching the described level. You regain all expended uses after a short rest. 

Dark Path 
When you reach 3rd level, you walk a path that defines you as a death knight forever. Up to this time you have been in a preparatory stage, committed to the path but not yet sworn to it. Now you choose the Path of Blood for vengeance, Path of Frost for cold disregard for life, or Path of the Unholy to defy the heavens, all detailed at the end of the class description.
Your choice grants you features at 3rd level and again at 7th, 15th, and 20th level. Those features include path spells and the Channel Divinity feature.

Path Spells
Each path has a list of associated spells. You gain access to these spells at the levels specified in the path description. Once you gain access to a path spell, you always have it prepared. Path spells don’t count against the number of spells you can prepare each day.
If you gain a path spell that doesn’t appear on the death knight spell list, the spell is nonetheless a death knight spell for you.

Channel Divinity
Your path allows you to channel divine energy to fuel magical effects. Each Channel Divinity option provided by your path explains how to use it. When you use your Channel Divinity, you choose which option to use. You must then finish a short or long rest to use your Channel Divinity again. Some Channel Divinity effects require saving throws. When you use such an effect from this class, the DC equals your death knight spell save DC.
By default, you may always Turn Good, and gain an additional choice from your Path. 

Channel Divinity: Turn Good
As an action, you present your unholy symbol and speak a prayer censuring humanoids, celestials, and beasts, using your Channel Divinity. Each humanoid, celestial or beast that can see or hear you within 30 feet of you must make a Spirit saving throw. 
If the creature fails its saving throw, it is turned for 1 minute or until it takes damage. A turned creature must spend its turns trying to move as far away from you as it can, and it can’t willingly move to a space within 30 feet of you. It also can’t take reactions. For its action, it can use only the Dash action or try to escape from an effect that prevents it from moving. If there’s nowhere to move, the creature can use the Dodge action.

Ability Score Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature.

Extra Attack
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.

Cursed Carrier
Starting at 6th level, you can carry diseases in your body, and spread them by touch (if contact), scratch (if injury), breath (if inhaled), or spit (if ingested). You can carry up to three diseases of your choice with this ability, above the normal three added by Corrupting Touch.

Improved Runic Strike
By 11th level, you are so suffused with the might of the Lich King that all your melee weapon strikes carry his unholy power with them. Whenever you hit a creature with a melee weapon, the creature takes an extra 1d8 shadow damage. If you also use your Runic Strike with an attack, you add this damage to the extra damage of your Runic Strike.

Dispelling Touch
Beginning at 14th level, you can use your action to end one spell on yourself or on one willing creature that you touch. You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Charisma modifier (a minimum of once). You regain expended uses when you finish a long rest.

Aura Improvement
Also starting at 18th level, you can no longer lose concentration on an aura from taking damage, and may extend the range of any aura spell by 100%. Any effect that would normally dispel the aura instead suppresses it for 1 minute instead. 

Dark Paths
Dark Paths act as Paladins’ Sacred Oaths, and each death knight must choose one Dark Path starting at 3rd level.

Path of Blood
You are a dark guardian who manipulates and corrupts life energy to sustain themselves in the face of the enemy’s onslaught. Blood death knights invoke ancient legends of blood-drinking beings who are immortal on the battlefield.

Path of Blood Spells
Level	Spell
3rd	Bane, false life
5th	Rune array (vampiric), ray of enfeeblement 
9th	Carrion swarm, vampiric touch
13th	Black tentacles (or bloody grasp), Strangulate
17th	Circle of power, vampiric aura

Channel Divinity: Blood Ward: You can spend a Channel Divinity use as a reaction to enhance any aura you have to resist hostile magic. Choose one school of magic. You can grant yourself and everyone within range of any aura you have advantage on saving throws versus any magical effect from that school 1 minute. 

Blood Strike [Strike]. Beginning when you choose this archetype at 3rd level, whenever you hit a living creature with a melee weapon attack, you can spend one of your hit dice to regain health. 

Blood Tap. Starting at 7th level, whenever you use Death Pact to restore mana, the mana restored is increased by 50% (or 3 mana points per spell level). 

Will of the Necropolis. Starting at 15th level, whenever you are reduced to below half hit points, you may cast the death coil spell as a bonus action instead of an action. This feature can be used once per instance of you dropping below half your hit points, or twice per instance if you are under the effects of the avatar form death knight spell. 

Life Stealer. Starting at 20th level, whenever you are dropped to 0 hit points, you may use your death pact spell on any dying creature as well as undead and fiends as a reaction. 
You may also instead tear the life from living targets within 30 ft. as a reaction, stealing a number of hit points equal to ¼ their current hit points, and restoring your hit points by the same amount. 
The target may resist with an opposed Stamina saving throw. This may be used once per Charisma modifier (minimum 1) before requiring a long rest. 

Path of Frost
You are a harbinger of doom, channeling runic power and delivering freezing weapon strikes. Frost death knights are terrors of the frozen wastes.

Path of Frost Spells
Level	Spell
3rd	Icy touch, rune array (frozen wastes)
5th	Hold, consecration/desecration
9th	Blizzard, curse of the elements
13th	Blight, ice storm
17th	Cone of cold (howling blast), cripple

Channel Divinity: Freeze. You can spend a Channel Divinity use as an action to cause enemies within a 20-foot radius to be wracked with unbearable pain as you freeze their blood. The targets must succeed a Charisma save or suffer Disadvantage to all attack rolls and skill checks, and move at half movement while in the affected area. This lasts for a number of rounds equal to your Death Knight level. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of its turn every round. 

Frost Presence. Starting when you gain this archetype at 3rd level, whenever you deal cold damage through a death knight spell or ability, you deal extra cold damage equal to your proficiency bonus, applying once per round. You also gain resistance to cold damage. 

Might of the Wastes [Strike]. Starting at 7th level, your frost-sharpened weapons deals a critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20. You also deal an additional 1d4 points of cold damage whenever you strike an enemy with this. You may also add the extra damage from your Frost Presence ability to this. 

Frozen Soul. Starting at 15th level, whenever you reduce a creature to 0 hit points from a cold spell, or if they under the effects of your Freeze channel divinity, your next Runic Strike within 1 hour has no mana cost. You may also choose to deal half of your Runic Strike’s extra damage as cold damage. If you choose to do so, you may add half the bonus to damage from your Frost Presence ability. If you are under the effects of the avatar form death knight spell, your next two Runic Strikes within 1 hour have no mana cost. 

Pillar of Frost. Starting at 20th level, supernatural ice hangs heavy on your body. This increases your strength score by 4 to a max of 24 and your Stamina by 2 to a max of 22.

Unholy Path 
You are a pale horseman of death, leading undead troops to battle, fueled with hatred of the living. Unholy death knights lead armies of the dead and overwhelm their enemies. 

Unholy Path Spells
Level	Spell
3rd	Death coil, charm undead
5th	Essence seal, earth shield (bone shield)
9th	Bind undead (3rd level), bestow curse
13th	Confusion, rune array (worm)
17th	Antilife shell, death and decay

Channel Divinity: Bolster Undead. You can use a Channel Divinity use to guard undead against being turned, as well as empowering them. All and any undead under your command within 30 ft. of you may add your Proficiency bonus to attack rolls, skill checks, and saving throws for one minute, and may ignore one Turn Undead attempt. You cannot benefit from the numeric bonus, even if you are undead, but can resist one Turn Undead attempt as normal. This bonus remains for ten minutes. 

Undead Companion. At 3rd level, you gain a bound companion that accompanies you on your adventures and can fight alongside you. The companion must be an undead that is no larger than Medium and that has a challenge rating of 1/4 or lower (for example, a zombie or a skeleton). See Bound Companion for more details.

Bond
Due to your bond with the creature, you can add your proficiency bonus to the undead’s AC, attack rolls, and damage rolls, as well as to any saving throws and skills it is proficient in. Its hit point maximum equals its normal maximum or four times your death knight level, whichever is higher. The creature benefits from Bolster Undead the same way you do. 

Leveling up
Your undead companion improves in CR the higher your level becomes, CR equal to 1 per every 8 levels of Death Knight (improving to ½ CR at level 4, 1 CR at level 8, and 2 CR at level 16). When reaching 8th level, you can also choose a Large undead creature. 

Special 
Bonding with an undead requires spending one hour animating it, and the next hour drawing from any superficial memories before its death. 
You may also raise your enemies to serve as undead companions, so long as their CR are within the described guidelines (treat 1 level as 1 CR). Most death knights take low-level ghouls, before being able to bond with greater targets.

Grave March. At 7th level, your auras increase in strength. You may maintain two aura spells at once as if they were one spell. Furthermore, your allies can also benefit from two auras at a time, so long as one of these spells is the Unholy Aura spell. The maximum duration of your Unholy Aura spell is 4 hours instead of 1. 
Also, whenever in a forced march, all creatures under your Unholy Aura spell have advantage to saving throws to continue a march without suffering exhaustion, and can move at a fast pace without incurring a penalty to their Passive Spirit (Perception) score. 

Army of the Dead. Starting at 15th level, your conjure undead (animate undead) spells are inherently stronger than others. You may cast the conjure undead spell as an action instead of 1 minute when conjuring undead. Once this feature is used, it cannot be used again until after a short rest. 
If you cast the spell with its full casting time, a number of zombies arise to fight for you and protect you while you cast the spell. The number of zombies is equal to 2 per spell level, so far as there are sufficient corpses within 30 feet. 
These temporary undead followers are friendly to you and your allies, and are controlled as normal summons, but do not count against your limit of summoned undead. The DM has the zombies’ statistics. Once the spell’s casting time ends and you successfully cast the animate undead spell, you can use an action to maintain the additional zombies. The additional zombies cannot remain more than 10 minutes. If you lose concentration on the spell, you also lose concentration on the zombies, and they stop animating. 
Furthermore, if you do not have the required number of corpses (the required material focus) for animating undead, you use corpses from any place so long as you are within 1 mile of a graveyard, mass grave, battlefield, or any location with sufficient amount of corpses so long as they are not on hallowed ground. The earth must be loose enough for the zombies to dig their way out. The temporary undead you create from casting animate undead require the corpses to be within 30 feet, however. 

Unholy Champion. Starting at 20th level, you gain the avatar form death knight spell for no cost if you didn’t already have it. Furthermore, you augment the spell in the following ways:
•	You are instantly healed for 3d8 + 10 hit points. The healing increases by 1d8 per spell level above 3rd. 
•	You become resistant to damage from good aligned targets (or magical weapons) as well as to shadow damage.
•	Any undead within any active aura you have regains 2d6 hit points every round. This cannot exceed half their total hit points. 

Druid (DRD)
The night elf notices a broken blade of familiar design, and then a disturbance in the distance. She rises, and runs toward the sound, leaping through the forest expertly and silently. As she comes to a waterfall, she leaps off the edge of the cliff, a wave of purple mist enveloping her, as she shapeshifts into a saber cat, prepared for further pursuit.

An ancient troll stands quietly atop an equally old ziggurat, eyes narrowing against the bright red sunrise. In the distance, the waves bring the promise of war as ships sail towards his homeland. He speaks a prayer to the Loa, before shapeshifting into a leathery-winged primordial pterrordax, and rising upon the winds to scout the danger approaching his home.

A worgen stalks the forest, hunting her quarry, smelling blood. She emerges to a worgen stirred into a blood-frenzy upon a wounded human, prepared to bite it. She shouts, causing the mindless beast to turn to her. She raises her hand, bringing a pillar of moonlight down, searing the worgen’s fur. As the blinding light subsides, an unconscious human lies on the grass, curse overwhelmed by the moon-goddess’s holy strength.  

Druids are keepers of the world who walk the path of nature, following the wisdom of the Ancients and Cenarius, healing and nurturing the world. To druids, nature is a delicate balance of actions in which even the smallest imbalance can create storming turmoil from peaceful skies. Druids draw their power from this natural energy, using it to change their shapes and command the forces of nature. Traditionally, druids chose the path of a specific animal totem. Since the invasion of the Burning Legion, however, most druids have undergone a number of reforms, including encouraging the study of magic from all totems. Druids who do this are known as druids of the wild.

BALANCE AND HARMONY
Druids harness the vast powers of nature to preserve balance and protect life. With experience, druids can unleash nature’s raw energy against their enemies, raining celestial fury on them from a great distance, binding them with enchanted vines, or ensnaring them in unrelenting cyclones. 
Druids can also direct this power to heal wounds and restore life to fallen allies. They are deeply in tune with the animal spirits of Azeroth. As master shapeshifters, druids can take on the forms of a variety of beasts, morphing into a bear, cat, storm crow, or sea lion with ease. This flexibility allows them to fill different roles during their adventures, tearing enemies to shreds one minute and surveying the battlefield from the sky the next. These keepers of the natural order are among the most versatile heroes in Azeroth, and they must be prepared to adjust to new challenges on a moment’s notice.
Cenarius is the patron entity of all druids. However, each group of druids has its own special patrons and some even have the ability to transform into a being that looks like their patron. Many druids take on an animal companion based on their patron.

CALL OF THE WILD
A druid's empathy with the creatures of the wild also allows him to shapeshift into the forms of other animals. For example, a wounded druid whose magical energies are running low might abruptly take on the form of a bear in order to better withstand further injury. Alternatively, the druid might shift into the form of some large cat, sneak up behind an enemy, then pounce and deliver a fierce flurry of melee attacks. Even the deepest oceans can be explored by a druid, who can simply shift into an aquatic creature, allowing him to stay underwater as long as needed.
Druids come and go as they please, and their goals typically have little to do with the ‘civilized’ world. Unaffiliated with any specific government, the primary druidic organization on Azeroth, the Cenarion Circle, answers to no one but itself. 
The highest rank that a druid can have is that of archdruid, and there are only a few archdruids on Azeroth. At the moment the Cenarion Circle's leader is Archdruid Malfurion Stormrage, also widely considered to be the first (and greatest) mortal druid on Azeroth.

CREATING A DRUID
When making a druid, consider why your character has such a close bond with nature. Perhaps your character lives in a society where druidism still thrives, or was raised by a druid after being abandoned in the depths of a forest, or burdened by a terrible curse to which druidism was a cure. 
Perhaps your character had a dramatic encounter with the spirits of nature, coming face to face with a giant eagle or dire wolf and surviving the experience. Maybe your character was born during an epic storm or a volcanic eruption, which was interpreted as a sign that becoming a druid was part of your character's destiny.
Have you always been an adventurer as part of your druidic calling, or did you first spend time as a caretaker of a sacred grove or spring? Perhaps your homeland was befouled by evil, and you took up an adventuring life in hopes of finding a new home or purpose. 
Druids harness the vast powers of nature to preserve balance and protect life. With experience, druids can unleash nature’s raw energy against their enemies, raining celestial fury on them from a great distance, binding them with enchanted vines, or ensnaring them in unrelenting cyclones.
The druids of Azeroth nearly all belong to the circle of Cenarius. Druids otherwise corrupted still belong to the same circle. Azerothian druids are more limited in the shapes they may choose when transforming, but they gain an additional ability to empower said form. 

QUICK BUILD
You can make a druid quickly by following these suggestions. First, Spirit should be your highest ability score, followed by Stamina. Second, choose the hermit background. Third, choose the gust, thorn whip, and wrath cantrips, along with the following 1st-level spells for your idol: primal roar (abandonment aura), charm (beast), conjure (beast), entangling roots, faerie fire, and rejuvenation. 

PROFICIENCIES
Armor: Light armor 
Weapons: Clubs, daggers, darts, javelins, maces, quarterstaffs, sickles, slings, spears
Tools: Herbalism kit
Saving Throws: Charisma, Stamina 
Skills: Choose two from Arcana, Animal Handling, Insight, Medicine, Nature, Perception, Religion, and Survival

CLASS FEATURES
As a druid, you have the following class features.
HIT POINTS
Hit Dice 1d8 per druid level
Hit Points at 1st Level 8 + your Stamina modifier
Hit Points at Higher Levels 1d8 (or 5) + your Stamina modifier per druid level after 1st

EQUIPMENT
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
•	(a) a quarterstaff, or (b) any simple weapon
•	(a) five javelins or (b) a sling and 10 bullets
•	Leather armor, an explorer’s pack, and a druidic focus (idol)

Druid Class
Level	Proficiency	Features					Caster level (Spell level)
1st	+2		Druidic, Spellcasting				1 (1st)
2nd	+2		Wild shape, Druidic Circle, Ancient Power	2 (1st)
3rd	+2		-						3 (2nd)
4th	+2		Ability Score Improvement, Wild Shape		4 (2nd)
Improvement (Water)
5th	+3		-						5 (3rd)
6th	+3		Druid Circle Feature				6 (3rd)
7th	+3		-						7 (4th)
8th	+3		Ability Score Improvement, Wild Shape 		8 (4th)
Improvement (Air)
9th	+4		-						9 (5th)
10th	+4		Druid Circle Feature				10 (5th)
11th	+4		-						11 (6th)
12th	+4		Ability Score Improvement, Wild Shape		12 (6th)
Improvement (Plant)
13th	+5		-						13 (7th)
14th	+5		Druid Circle Feature				14 (7th)
15th	+5		-						15 (8th)
16th	+5		Ability Score Improvement			16 (8th)
17th	+6		-						17 (9th)
18th	+6		Timeless, Beast Spells				18 (9th)
19th	+6		Ability Score Improvement			19 (9th)
20th	+6		Archdruid					20 (9th)

Druidic
You know druidic, the secret language of druids, fey, and spirits of the wild. You can speak the language and use it to leave hidden messages. You and others who know this language automatically spot such a message. Others spot the message’s presence with a successful DC 15 Spirit (Perception) check but can’t decipher it without magic. If you can speak druidic, you can communicate one-way with all other druids and fey creatures, even if you don’t otherwise share a language. Natural beasts understand simple commands in druidic. 

Spellcasting
Drawing on the divine essence of nature itself, you can cast spells to shape that essence to your will. 

Cantrips
At 1st level, you know a number of cantrips equal to your proficiency bonus.

Conjuring and Binding 
A druid can conjure and bind aberrations, beasts, elementals, fey, oozes, and plants. 

Preparing and Casting Spells
Each druid level provides you with 1 caster level in the druid class. You follow the normal progression to unlock spell levels (see the table under the Mana section).
You prepare the list of druid spells that are available for you to cast, choosing from the druid spell list. You can also change your list of prepared spells when you finish a long rest by meditating in nature and consulting your druidic idol (treat as a spellbook). Preparing a new list of druid spells requires time spent in prayer and meditation: at least 1 minute per spell level for each spell on your list.

Ritual Casting
You can cast a druid spell as a ritual if that spell has the ritual tag and you have the spell in your idol. You don't need to have the spell prepared.

Spellcasting Ability
Spirit is your spellcasting ability for your druid spells, since your magic draws upon your devotion and attunement to nature. You use your Spirit whenever a spell refers to your spellcasting ability. In addition, you use your Spirit modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a druid spell you cast and when making an attack roll with one.
Spell save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Spirit modifier
Spell attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Spirit modifier

Spellbook – Idol
At 1st level, your idol contains six 1st-level druid spells of your choice. When you level up, you gain 2 additional druid spells of your choice. You may also acquire new spells by research, tutelage, or from the spellbooks and scrolls of spellcasters who have spells you can cast. 
Your idol is effectively your spellbook, and you may add spells by meditating with it and inhaling herbal vapors. 

Spellcasting Focus 
You can use a druidic idol as a spellcasting focus for your druid spells.

Druid Circle
At 2nd level, you choose to identify with a circle of druids: the Circle of the Balance to preserve the order of nature, the Circle of the Feral Beast to act within nature’s order, or the Circle of Restoration to keep and preserve living things, all detailed at the end of the class description. Your choice grants you features at 2nd level and again at 6th, 10th, and 14th level.

Wild Shape
Starting at 2nd level, you may choose a land-bound beast to morph into as an action. You can use this feature twice before requiring a short or long rest. The creature selected can be any beast that cannot fly or swim naturally, such as a wolf, lion, bear, tiger, etc. You remain in this form a number of hours equal to half your druid level (round down).
You then revert to your normal form unless you expend another use of this feature. You can revert to your normal form earlier by using a bonus action on your turn. You automatically revert if you fall unconscious (unless if sleeping by your own volition, such as by resting or the slumber spell), drop to 0 hit points, or die. 
While you are transformed, the following rules apply:
•	Your game statistics are replaced by the statistics of the beast, but you retain your alignment, personality, and Intelligence, Spirit, and Charisma scores. You also retain all of your skill and saving throw proficiencies, in addition to gaining those of the creature. 
•	If the creature has the same proficiency as you and the bonus in its stat block is higher than yours, use the creature’s bonus instead of yours. If the creature has any legendary or lair actions, you can't use them.
•	When you transform, you assume the beast’s hit points and Hit Dice. When you revert to your normal form, you retain the percentage of hit points your wild shape form ended with, but this cannot reduce your hit points by more than one-quarter your hit point total (for instance, wild shaping to a creature at full hit points and ending the spell at 0 hit points reduces your current hit points by one-quarter). If the spell ended from your hit points being reduced to 0 or below, you revert back automatically, and reduce your current hit points by one-quarter as described. 
•	You can’t cast spells unless those noted by other abilities, and your ability to speak or take any action that requires hands is limited to the capabilities of your beast form. Transforming doesn’t break your concentration on a spell you’ve already cast, however, or prevent you from taking actions that are part of a spell (such as call lightning) that you’ve already cast.
•	You retain the benefit of any features from your class, race, or other source and can use them if the new form is physically capable of doing so. However, you can’t use any of your special senses, such as darkvision, unless your new form also has that sense.
•	You choose whether your equipment falls to the ground in your space, merges into your new form, or is worn by it. Worn equipment functions as normal, but the DM decides whether it is practical for the new form to wear a piece of equipment, based on the creature’s shape and size. Your equipment doesn’t change size or shape to match the new form, and any equipment that the new form can’t wear must either fall to the ground or merge with it. Equipment that merges with the form has no effect until you leave the form.

Starting at 4th level, you may choose a creature with natural swimming capabilities and underwater breathing, such as a sea lion, a seal, a fish, a shark, etc. 
At 8th level, you may choose a creature with natural flying capabilities (such as giant eagles, dragonhawks, storm-crows, or vultures) to the list of creatures you can transform to. 
At 12th level, you may take the form of a tree or plant creature, and add minor ancients to the list of creatures you can transform to. 
The chosen creature forms are equal to your Wisdom bonus from each category (land, water, air, and plant), and the suite cannot be changed later except when leveling up (in which case you may choose a new suite of creatures for each category). Creatures you may transform to have a maximum CR of your hit dice divided by 8 (¼ at level 2, ½ at level 4, 1 at level 8, and 2 at level 16). 

Ancient Power
Starting at 2nd level, you may rapidly recover your mana by invoking ancient powers. You can use your action and bonus action on your turn to regain mana as if completed a short rest (or rested for one hour). 
You can use this feature up to one time per every two points of proficiency bonus. You regain expended uses when you finish a long rest.
Alternatively, if you use this during a short rest, you are treated as if you rested for two hours. 

Ability Score Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature.

Timeless
Starting at 18th level, the primal magic that you wield causes you to age more slowly. For every 10 actual years you live, your body ages one year only.

Beast Spells
Beginning at 18th level, you can cast many of your druid spells in any shape you assume using Wild Shape. You can perform the somatic and verbal components of a druid spell while in a beast shape, but you aren’t able to provide material components. 

Archdruid
At 20th level, you can use your Wild Shape an unlimited number of times. Additionally, you can ignore the verbal and somatic components of your druid spells, as well as any material components that lack a cost and aren’t consumed by a spell. You gain this benefit in both your normal shape and your various Wild Shapes.

Druid Circles
Azerothian Druids usually choose from one of the below three circles. 

Balance
You achieve a balance between the powers and influence of the moon and sun. Balance druids usually stand in the back lines, invigorating their allies and calling down shooting stars on their foes.

Balance Circle Spells
Level	Spells
3rd	Barkskin, entangling roots
5th	Call lightning, plant growth
7th	Divination, freedom of movement
9th	Commune with nature, tree stride

Eclipse Pool. Starting at 2nd level, whenever you successfully deal arcane or holy damage to an enemy through a Druidic spell or ability, you gain one Eclipse point. You cannot gain more than one per round. This also applies once per spell, not once per target or sigil pulse. Eclipse points are used to empower your abilities. 
For every Eclipse point you have, you may deal an additional 1 point of arcane or holy damage with spells and abilities that deal direct arcane or holy damage. You may have a maximum number of eclipse points equal to 2 plus your Proficiency bonus, and they remain for one hour after being acquired. 

Balance of Sun and Moon. Also starting at 2nd level, you may expend one Eclipse point when casting a spell that deals arcane or holy damage, and deal 1d4 extra points of damage of that type atop the normal bonus. You cannot expend an Eclipse point and gain one in the same round. 

Moonkin. Starting at 6th level, you may always transform into a wildkin when wild shaping. Furthermore, when transformed to a wildkin, you may still cast druidic spells of the Transmutation and Evocation schools. You can perform the somatic and verbal components of druid spells of the Transmutation and Evocation schools while in a beast shape, but you aren’t able to provide material components. 
When in this form, such spells cost 1 mana less than normal. Once you gain the Beast Spells druid feature of 18th level, you can cast spells as normal, but you still benefit from the mana cost reduction for those specific spell schools. 

Shooting Star. Starting at 10th level, you may reroll the damage roll for any druid spell you cast by expending an Eclipse Point. If the dice’s roll is the maximum possible result (6 on d6, 4 on d4, etc.), you may roll again and add that damage to the total. 

World in Balance. Starting at 14th level, you can command the world to hear your call, and call a solar or lunar eclipse (depending on the time). Once this ability is used, it cannot be used again until after a long rest. 
Solar Eclipse (Day only). The sun’s light is covered by a shadow which blankets the earth in a 5-mile radius centered on the druid for one hour. The area becomes dim light or normal light (your choice), and creatures sensitive to sunlight do not take penalties from sunlight. All your druid spells that deal arcane damage do so as if your Eclipse pool was full. You also gain one Eclipse Point per minute. 
Lunar Eclipse (Night only). The moon’s light is bright and cloaked in the shadow which blankets the earth in a 5-mile radius centered on the druid for one hour. The area becomes either dim or normal light (your choice), and creatures sensitive to moonlight or sunlight take penalties (depending on your wish) when in the area. All your druid spells that deal holy damage do so as if your Eclipse pool is full. You also gain one Eclipse Point per minute. 

Feral
Your magical talents bring you closer to beasts of the wild, making you prime and paragon above them. Feral druids often take up traits of the beasts they shape to. 

Fortitude of the Wilds. When you choose this archetype at 2nd level, you gain the ability to use Wild Shape on your turn as a bonus action or a reaction, rather than as an action.
Additionally, while you are transformed by Wild Shape, you can use a bonus action to expend one spell to regain 1d8 hit points per level of the spell expended. 

Fury of the Wilds. Also when gaining this archetype, when determining your maximum allowable CR to transform to, you divide your level by three, and not eight (round down), referring to the below table.

Druid Level	Maximum CR
2		1/2
4		1
6		2
9		3
12		4
15		5
18		6

Primal Strike. Starting at 6th level, your attacks in beast form count as magical for the purpose of overcoming resistance and immunity to non-magical attacks and damage.

Blessed Beast. Starting at 10th level, you may gain a special ability when in wild shape. Choose any of category of wild shape (land, sea, air, or plant), and you may assign one of the following abilities to all creatures in that category when wild shaping into them, but only when in that form. Upon reaching 15th level, you may choose another option. 
•	Defending beast: You can gain resistance to non-magical bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage by expending a reaction. This remains for one minute. If used once, you cannot use this ability again until after a short rest. 
•	Furious beast: You can rage as if you had the berserker rage warrior talent as a 1st level warrior. If you already have the talent, you increase the total times you can rage by 1. If chosen again, your effective warrior level for this ability is equal to half your druid level.
•	Holy beast: You gain the priest’s Channel Divinity as a 1st level priest, but only to Turn Undead, and you gain the Destroy Undead sub-ability. If chosen again, your effective priest level for this ability is equal to half your druid level. Fiends are also turned by this ability, but are not subject to the Destroy Undead ability. You cannot increase the number of uses of the Channel Divinity effect (regardless of effective priest level).
•	Inspiring beast: You gain the bard’s Inspiration ability as a 1st level bard. If chosen again, your effective bard level for this ability is equal to half your druid level.
•	Magical beast: You may choose any two spells from your druid spell list and cast them in while in wild shape. This does not require somatic or verbal components, but you must have chosen to merge any material components with you when you chose to wild shape. If taken again, this ability adds two other spells. 
Upon gaining the Beast Spells feature of 18th level, you may cast all your druid spells without somatic or verbal components, as this ability details. You may choose up two spells per use of this ability, and use their material components while wild shaped. 
•	Prowling beast: Whenever you and an ally both threaten a creature, your ally gains advantage to attack rolls against it.
•	Persistent beast: Whenever you are in a wild shape, you have advantage to Stamina saving throws to maintain a concentration spell. Furthermore, if you lose concentration on a spell by taking damage while in wild shape, you may spend half the mana cost of the spell to retain concentration of it as if you didn’t fail the saving throw. 
•	Raking beast: You gain the rogue’s Sneak Attack ability as a 1st level rogue. If chosen again, your effective rogue level for this ability is equal to half your druid level.

Grand Beast. Starting at 14th level, your weapon attacks while in wild shape deal an additional die of damage. Also, while under a wild shape, you gain 5 temporary hit points at the beginning of each round when in a wild shape. These temporary hit points do not carry over to your round. 

Restoration
You focus on the renewing and resilient quality of nature. Restoration druids appreciate the more organic side of nature, preferring to conjure plant allies (usually treants), heal their friends, and reach out through the Emerald Dream for information and insights to the future. 

Restoration Circle Spells
Level	Spells
3rd	Pass without trace, rejuvenation
5th	Daylight, lesser restoration
7th	Divination, conjure plants (level 3)
9th	Dream, tranquility

Healing Lore. When you choose this archetype at 2nd level, you may alter the target of a druid sigil spell effect as a bonus action. This requires a successful attack against the new target, and you must be within the range of them to cast the spell normally. The spell’s effects take place at the new target’s turn as usual.

Extended Growth. Also starting at 2nd level, the maximum duration of healing sigil druid spells for you is doubled, and you gain advantage to the roll to maintain a sigil spell. 

Seed of Life. Starting at 6th level, you may touch any creature as an action, and store any spell from the druid spell list into them, which remains latent until you discharge it with a mental command. If the spell’s casting time is more than 1 action, you must also spend the casting time in contact with the target, as well as any required components. So long as the seed remains active, you gain a general and vague sense of the well-being of the creature and their physical and mental health, and you may use a reaction at any point to discharge the spell (in reaction to sudden pain or mental distress), although the spell does not specify the particulars of the triggering event. 
If you choose the Lesser Restoration or Greater Restoration spells (or similar effects), the spell can also notify you when the target is affected by a condition the spell would heal or remove (such as death if imbuing revivify). 
The seed remains active for up 24 hours, after which it fades. You may also discharge this spell only if the target is within 5 miles of you. If you and the target are within similar terrain and there are live plants within 30 feet of both of you (such as being in the same forest or desert), you can discharge the spell at any range so long as the natural terrain is unbroken. You can place up to three seeds per day, and a creature can only benefit from one at any given time. 
This feature has no effect on constructs unless they are plant-based or made of wood.

Ironbark. Starting at 10th level, whenever you heal a creature (including yourself), you may imbue their skin with the resilience of nature. If you do, they gain resistance to all non-magical weapon damage for 1 minute, or gain a number of temporary hit points equal to your level. A given creature can benefit only once every 24 hours. 

Improved Seed of Life. Starting at 14th level, you may imbue up to six seeds of life at once, and can imbue a single target with up to two seeds. You can also use an action to see up to a distance of 5 ft. from a creature affected by your Seed of Life, so long as the ability wasn’t discharged yet. You have no use of your normal senses while you are perceiving this way. 

Hunter (HTR)
A dwarf watches over frozen mountains, a loyal bear next to him breathing out warm buffs of breath against the falling snow. The dwarf studies the tracks in the snow, and then lifts his firearm, beckoning the bear to continue forward. 

Stalking her prey, a troll loads a bolt into her crossbow. The panther is completely unaware of her, as she prowls through the jungle. Until it is too late. Before she can react, the bolt pierces her skull, as the troll walks calmly to claim her prize.

As a ship enters the harbor, a thin whistle of a crossbow bolt whispers in the wind. The navigator silently collapses, dragging the ship’s wheel with her as she falls, forcing the ship to veer off and collide with the dock’s wooden beams, before its hull is punctured by the harbor’s rocky bottom, sinking. A goblin disappears back into the forest from his perch, his job complete, sporting a quiet smile on his face.

From an early age the call of the wild draws some adventurers from the comfort of their homes into the unforgiving primal world outside. Those who endure become hunters. Masters of their environment, they are able to slip like ghosts through the trees and lay traps in the paths of their enemies.

DEADLY RANGERS
Warriors of the wilderness, hunters specialize in hunting the monsters that threaten the edges of civilization—humanoid raiders, rampaging beasts and monstrosities, terrible giants, and even dragons. They learn to track their prey as a predator does, moving stealthily through the wilds and hiding themselves in brush and rubble. 
Hunters focus their combat training on techniques that are particularly useful against their specific favored foes. Thanks to their intimate familiarity with the wilds, hunters also acquire the ability to cast spells that harness nature’s power, much like a druid. Their spells, like their combat abilities, focus on speed, stealth, and the hunt.

INDEPENDENT ADVENTURERS
Hunters are stalkers in the wild, living on their knowledge of survival and skill with a bow or rifle. They are deeply in tune with nature and some of its mightiest beasts are their allies. Of Azeroth's many creatures, few can resist the hunters' call, and fewer can survive their fury. Hunters are as varied as the world's many climates, but they are universally renowned for their amazing abilities to find their prey and bring it down. They come from any race, though certain races naturally excel at the hunter's profession. Most hunters seek to aid the balance of nature along with their druidic allies.
Hunters are skilled in stealth, slipping through the woods like a ghost. Orcs of the Horde first learned the ways of the Azerothian hunter from forest trolls on Lordaeron and tauren have been masters of the hunt since the dawn of the world. Like the druid, hunters call upon the spirits of the land, wind, and fire to aid them in their hunts and tasks. 

CREATING A HUNTER
As you create your hunter character, consider the nature of the training that gave you your particular capabilities. Did you train with a single mentor, wandering the wilds together until you mastered the hunter’s ways? Did you leave your apprenticeship, or was your mentor slain— perhaps by the same kind of monster that became your favored enemy? Or perhaps you learned your skills as part of a band of hunter’s affiliated with a druidic circle, trained in mystic paths as well as wilderness lore. You might be self-taught, a recluse who learned combat skills, tracking, and even a magical connection to nature through the necessity of surviving in the wilds.
What’s the source of your particular hatred of a certain kind of enemy? Did a monster kill someone you loved or destroy your home village? Or did you see too much of the destruction these monsters cause and commit yourself to reining in their depredations? Is your adventuring career a continuation of your work in protecting the borderlands, or a significant change? What made you join up with a band of adventurers? Do you find it challenging to teach new allies the ways of the wild, or do you welcome the relief from solitude that they offer?

QUICK BUILD 
You can make a hunter quickly by following these suggestions. First, make Agility your highest ability score, followed by Spirit. (Some hunters who focus on two-weapon fighting make Strength higher than Agility.) Second, choose the outlander background.

CLASS FEATURES
As a hunter, you gain the following class features.

HIT POINTS
Hit Dice: 1d10 per hunter level
Hit Points at 1st Level: 10 + your Stamina modifier
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) + your Stamina modifier per hunter level after 1st

PROFICIENCIES 
Armor: Light armor, medium armor
Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons
Tools: None
Saving Throws: Strength, Agility
Skills: Choose three from Animal Handling, Athletics, Insight, Investigation, Nature, Perception, Stealth, and Survival

EQUIPMENT
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
•	(a) scale mail or (b) leather armor
•	(a) two shortswords or (b) two simple melee weapons
•	(a) a dungeoneer’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack
•	A druid idol
•	A longbow and a quiver of 20 arrows, or a common-quality firearm (EP 2 or lower), 20 bullets, and a powder horn

SPECIAL FEATURES
Talents. If you wish to recreate the original 5e Ranger, choose the following talents the appropriate levels: 
•	Natural Explorer as the first talent at 1st level
•	Primeval Awareness as the second talent at 3rd level
•	Natural Explorer as the third talent at 6th level
•	Land’s Stride as the fourth talent at 8th level
•	Natural Explorer as the fifth talent at 10th level
•	Camouflage as the sixth talent at 14th level
•	Feral Senses as the seventh talent at 18th level

Hunter Class
Level	Proficiency	Features			Talents		Caster level (Spell level)
1st	+2		Favored Enemy,	Hunter Talent	1		-
2nd	+2		Fighting Style, Hunter Focus	1		1 (1st)
3rd	+2		Hunter Archetype		2		2 (1st)
4th	+2		Ability Score Improvement	2		2 (1st)
5th	+3		Extra Attack			2		3 (2nd)
6th	+3		Favored Enemy			3		3 (2nd)
7th	+3		Hunter Archetype Feature	3		4 (2nd)
8th	+3		Ability Score Improvement	4		4 (2nd)
9th	+4		-				4		5 (3rd)
10th	+4		Hide in Plain Sight		5		5 (3rd)
11th	+4		Hunter Archetype Feature	5		6 (3rd)
12th	+4		Ability Score Improvement	5		6 (3rd)
13th	+5		-				5		7 (4th)
14th	+5		Favored Enemy			6		7 (4th)
15th	+5		Hunter Archetype Feature	6		8 (4th)
16th	+5		Ability Score Improvement	6		8 (4th)
17th	+6		-				6		9 (5th)
18th	+6		-				7		9 (5th)
19th	+6		Ability Score Improvement	7		10 (5th)
20th	+6		Foe Slayer			7		10 (5th)

Favored Enemy
Beginning at 1st level, you have significant experience studying, tracking, hunting, and even talking to a certain type of enemy. Choose a type of favored enemy: aberrations, beasts, celestials, constructs, dragons, elementals, fey, fiends, giants, monstrosities, oozes, plants, or undead. Alternatively, you can select two races of humanoid (such as gnolls and orcs) as favored enemies.
You have advantage on opposed checks against your favored enemies, as well as on Intelligence checks to recall information about them, and when making an attack against them, you deal 2 extra points of damage.
When you gain this feature, you also learn one language of your choice that is spoken by your favored enemies, if they speak one at all. As you gain levels, your choices reflect the types of monsters you have encountered on your adventures. You choose one additional favored enemy, as well as an associated language, at 6th and 14th level. 
You may switch this feature (and your chosen favored enemy) by performing the following tasks against one creature type (or two races of humanoids): 
•	Defeat it in single combat
•	Track and survey the creature type for at a total of 24 hours over 7 days
•	Examine its corpse for at one hour
You cannot change a favored enemy this way if it is limited to an organization, but can do the same to other organizations. You may switch back to previously studied favored enemy at the end of a long rest. The language gained by the initial favored enemy choices cannot be re-chosen by switching favored enemies. 

Hunter Talent
Starting at 1st level, you gain one of the following talents, representing your preferred tactics and abilities you honed through your experience of hunting. 
Whenever you qualify for another talent (as detailed in the talent column), you can choose another talent or gain another use of an existing talent. All abilities have DCs of 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Strength or Agility modifier (your choice) if they allow a saving throw.
You may also choose to gain a talent from outside this class’s list so long as you qualify for it. 

Fighting Style
At 2nd level, you adopt a particular style of fighting as your specialty. Choose one of the following options. You can’t take a Fighting Style option more than once, even if you later get to choose again.

Archery
You gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls you make with ranged weapons.

Defense
While you are wearing armor, you gain a +1 bonus to AC.

Dueling
When you are wielding a melee weapon in one hand and no other weapons, you gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls with that weapon.

Two-Weapon Fighting
When you engage in two-weapon fighting, you can add your ability modifier to the damage of the second attack.

Hunter Focus
You may choose to gain the ability to cast spells (drawing from the divine essence of nature itself) or to gain proficiency in engineering. Choose either the Spellcasting or Engineering features.

Spellcasting
Drawing on the divine essence of nature itself, you can cast spells to shape that essence to your will. 

Conjuring and Binding 
A hunter can conjure and bind beasts, elementals, fey, and plants. Beast master hunters often choose their animal companions from previously bounded animals. 

Preparing and Casting Spells
Each hunter level provides you with 0.5 caster levels in the hunter class. You follow the normal progression to unlock spell levels (see the table under the Mana section).
You prepare the list of hunter spells that are available for you to cast, choosing from the hunter spell list. 
When you do so, you may ready a number of hunter spells equal to half the number you can prepare normally (a 3rd level hunter with +2 Spirit can prepare 2 spells instead of 5). 
When you level up, you can exchange the spells known with others you qualify for. You cannot otherwise change your hunter spells other than by leveling up and exchanging them, or by training under another hunter, druid, or fey creature (see tutorship under magic), who can change your prepared spells after training is completed.

Spellcasting Ability
Spirit is your spellcasting ability for your hunter spells, since your magic draws upon your attunement to nature. You use your Spirit whenever a spell refers to your spellcasting ability. In addition, you use your Spirit modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a druid spell you cast and when making an attack roll with one.

Spell save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Spirit modifier
Spell attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Spirit modifier

Spellbook – Idol
At 2nd level, your idol contains three 1st-level hunter spells of your choice. When you level up, you gain 2 additional hunter spells of your choice. You may also acquire new spells by research, tutelage, or from the spellbooks and scrolls of spellcasters who have spells you can cast. 
Your idol is effectively your spellbook, and you may add spells by meditating with it and inhaling herbal vapors. 

Shot Spells
Shot spells may be cast while attacking with a ranged weapon, and counts as a strike feat for most purposes except where otherwise noted.
Some hunters eschew the arts of nature magic, and instead focus entirely on technology. 
They can lose access to all spells, and instead gain the Sharpshooter feature instead of the Spellcasting Feature.

Sharpshooter
You gain proficiency in engineer’s tools and weapons created by the tools (such as firearms and explosives). You also create and maintain such weapons with a 25% reduction to cost. 
If you already have proficiency in engineer’s tools, you instead gain expertise to all checks with these tools (although this does not improve the strength of technologically-crafted items).
You also gain one of the following features of your choice: 
•	The Suffused Arrows hunter talent. 
•	The Flash Bomber rogue talent

Hunter Archetype
At 3rd level, you choose an archetype that you strive to emulate: the Beast Master who bonds with an animal, a Marksman who always finds their target and excels in bringing them down, and a Survivalist, who has several terrain-based abilities and is an expert ambusher, all of which are detailed at the end of the class description. Your choice grants you features at 3rd level and again at 7th, 11th, and 15th level.

Ability Score Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature.

Extra Attack
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.

Hide in Plain Sight
Starting at 10th level, you can spend 1 minute creating camouflage for yourself. You must have access to fresh mud, dirt, plants, soot, and other naturally occurring materials with which to create your camouflage. Once you are camouflaged in this way, you can try to hide by pressing yourself up against a solid surface, such as a tree or wall, that is at least as tall and wide as you are. You gain a +10 bonus to Agility (Stealth) checks as long as you remain there without moving or taking actions. 
Once you move or take an action or a reaction, you must camouflage yourself again with an action so long as she remains in the same general terrain type. If you are in a different terrain, you must spend another minute.

Foe Slayer 
Starting at 20th level, you become an unparalleled hunter of your enemies. Once on each of your turns, you can add your Spirit modifier to the attack roll or the damage roll. You can choose to use this feature before or after the roll, but before any effects of the roll are applied.

Hunter Talents
•	Camouflage (requires proficiency +4 or above). You can use the Hide action as a bonus action on your turn. If you are also proficient with the Agility (Stealth) skill, you may cast the invisibility spell. After being used, the spell cannot be used again until after a short rest.
Also, you can’t be tracked by nonmagical means, unless you choose to leave a trail, even outside your favored terrain (if you have one). 
•	Dark Ranger. You add the following spells to your hunter spell list: banshee’s curse, death coil, death pact, drain life, death ward, and silence. You may also add undead to the list of creatures you can bind and conjure (allowing you to also charm and dominate undead). 
•	Dread Ambusher. You master the art of the ambush. You gain a bonus your initiative rolls equal to your Spirit modifier. Also, the start of your first turn of each combat encounter, your speed increases by 10 feet, which lasts until the end of that turn.
•	Essence Touch (requires proficiency of +3 or above). Whenever you touch a creature with innate special abilities (such as innate spellcasting), you can gain one use of their innate special abilities, usable only once before the essence fades away. This costs no mana, but you cannot steal an ability that is also a spell unless you had the level to cast it normally. Only hunters and monks may take this talent (with monks referring to their ki spell ability).
•	Favored Enemy. You may gain another favored enemy, or gain the ability if you don’t normally have it (such as by being a rogue or warrior). You cannot take this talent more than 3 times. 
•	Favored by Elune. You may add the find familiar spell to your spell list, but may only choose an owl as a familiar. Furthermore, your link to your owl familiar is 250 feet, instead of the normal 100 feet. If you are standing in moonlight, the link becomes 500 feet instead. If you later choose the Beastmaster archetype, you may make your familiar your bonded creature, in which case the creature is treated as both a familiar and hunter’s companion. 
•	Farsight. You increase the range of all ranged weapons of one type (crossbows, bows, firearms, axes, etc.) by half.
•	Feral Senses (requires proficiency +6 or above). You gain preternatural senses that help you fight creatures you can’t see. When you attack a creature you can’t see, your inability to see it doesn’t impose disadvantage on your attack rolls against it. You also permanently benefit from the see invisibility spell as if you cast it, but only so long as the enemy is within 60 feet. 
•	Focused Shot (requires the ability to attack multiple times in one round). You may choose to deal focused shots instead of risking missed attacks. Whenever you score a successful ranged attack and have any remaining attacks (such as from the Extra Attack feature or the haste spell), you may spend the extra attack to add the minimum possible damage the weapon attack deals to the damage of your initial attack. The damage is resolved as made by one weapon attack (and uses one point of ammunition as normal, and one malfunction check). For instance, if you successfully deal a longbow ranged attack for 1d8 + 4, and have an additional attack from the haste spell, you may expend the attack to add 5 points of damage to the initial attack (for a total of 1d8 + 9) damage. 
•	Hunter's Sense (requires proficiency of +4 and Primeval Alertness). You can cast the scrying spell, but can only affect a creature detected by primeval alertness or favored enemy. The creature must be within 10 miles of you to be affected by this ability. You may use this ability once per long rest. You do not require the spellcasting feature for this talent. 
This talent can be taken multiple times, each time increasing the times this ability can be used per long rest by two.
•	Iron Willed Hunter (requires proficiency +3 or above). You have honed your ability to resist the mind-altering powers of your prey. You gain proficiency in Spirit saving throws. If you already have this proficiency, you instead gain proficiency in Intelligence or Charisma saving throws (your choice). Only hunters may take this talent.
•	Land’s Stride (requires proficiency +3 or above). You may move through nonmagical difficult terrain without spending extra movement, and gain a +10 bonus to your speed. You can also pass through nonmagical plants without being slowed by them and without taking damage from them if they have thorns, spines, or a similar hazard. In addition, you have advantage on saving throws against plants that are magically created or manipulated to impede movement, such those created by the entangling roots spell. Only hunters or monks may take this talent.
•	Magic-User’s Nemesis (requires proficiency +3 or above). You can thwart someone else’s magic. When you see a creature casting a spell or teleporting within 30 feet of you, you can use your reaction to try to foil it, either by using your own magic (if you can access spells), or an attack roll (by using a weapon). The creature must succeed on a Spirit saving throw against your spell save DC or you must succeed on an attack roll, otherwise its spell or teleport fails and is wasted. Rogues and warriors recognize this talent as kick (if used at melee range), or intercept (if at range). 
•	Natural Explorer (also known as Favored Terrain). You are particularly familiar with one type of natural environment and are adept at traveling and surviving in such regions. Choose one type of favored terrain: arctic, coast, desert, forest, grassland, mountain, swamp, or caves and underground. When you make an Intelligence or Spirit check related to your favored terrain, your proficiency bonus is doubled if you are using a skill that you’re proficient in. This ability works on any plane so long as it has a terrain of comparable nature (desert in Outland’s Hellfire Peninsula, which counts as a desert). 
While traveling for an hour or more in your favored terrain, you gain the following benefits:
o	Difficult terrain doesn’t slow your group’s travel
o	Your group can’t become lost except by magical means
o	Even when you are engaged in another activity while traveling (such as foraging, navigating, or tracking), you remain alert to danger, and have advantage to checks to avoid being surprised in your favored terrain
o	You have advantage to saving throws against natural hazards in your favored terrain.
o	You can move stealthily at your normal pace without slowing down
o	When you forage or gather, you find twice as much food as you normally would
o	While tracking other creatures, you also learn their exact number, their sizes, and how long ago they passed through the area
You may switch an existing favored terrain by performing the following tasks, focused on one terrain:
o	Track in the area for at least one hour
o	Spend 7 days hours in the terrain 
o	Hunt down and defeat one native creature (though you do not have to slay it)
This talent can be taken multiple times, each time adding one favored terrain mastered at a given time. 
•	Primeval Alertness. Whenever you are subjected to an effect that attempts to detect or identify you (such as a scrying spell), you gain advantage to all saves versus such effects. If you succeed on an opposed Spirit check, you can also reverse the spell (if possible, gaining a momentary glimpse of who is attempting to scry on you). 
•	Primeval Awareness. You gain awareness of your environment on a local scale. So long as you can cast at least a level 1 spell, you can use your action and expend mana equal to any spell to gain primeval awareness. For 1 minute per level of the spell you expended, you can sense whether the following types of creatures are present within 1 mile of you (or within up to 6 miles if you are in your favored terrain, are on high ground compared to them, or if the target is a favored enemy): aberrations, celestials, dragons, elementals, fey, fiends, and undead. 
This feature doesn’t reveal the creatures’ location or number, but does hint at their strength in rough terms (weaker, equal to you, or stronger than you, more numerous than you, wounded) and their general direction. You must have the ability to cast the detect magic spell to gain this talent.
•	Primeval Disruption (requires the Primeval Awareness talent, and one of the two: proficiency of +3 or the ability to cast detect magic). You can sense if a favored enemy is casting a divine or arcane spell (choose one upon gaining this talent) within 3 miles. You are also aware of their general direction. If the target is within 1 mile, you can spend a reaction to force them to roll a Spirit saving throw against being distracted. This ability can be used a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus before replenishing after a long rest. If there are multiple favored enemies within the radius, you get a general awareness of them, but cannot force a disruption, unless you are the closest creature to the target. 
•	Tempered Hunter (requires the Favored Enemy ability). You have advantage versus divine or arcane spells (choose one upon gaining this talent) cast by your favored enemies and advantage to all checks to avoid being subject to the scrying spell, or being detected, or identified by similar magic. Magics of such type also cannot be used to put you to sleep or to read your mind.
•	Slayer’s Counter (requires proficiency +6 or above, and Slayer’s Prey). You gain the ability to counterattack when your prey tries to sabotage you. If the target of your Slayer’s Prey forces you to make a saving throw, you can use your reaction to make one weapon attack against the quarry. You make this attack immediately before making the saving throw. If your attack hits, your save automatically succeeds, in addition to the attack’s normal effects. 
•	Slayer’s Prey. You can focus your ire on one foe, increasing the harm you inflict on it. As a bonus action, you designate one creature you can see within 60 feet of you as the target of this feature. The first time each turn that you hit that target with a weapon attack, it takes an extra 1d6 damage from the weapon. Once the creature is defeated, you can choose another target. Only hunters may take this talent.
•	Stalker’s Flurry (requires proficiency +4 or above). You learn to attack with such unexpected speed that you can turn a miss into another attack. When you miss with a weapon attack, you can make another weapon attack as part of the same action. This can be done a number of times equal to your Strength or Agility modifier before requiring a short rest. Only hunters may take this talent.
•	Suffused Arrows. You master the art of spell-casting through arrows or infusing them. You may choose to gain proficiency in the infusion kit, but can only infuse ranged weapons or arrows, or the Spell Strike feat (but only for ranged weapons). If you choose to gain proficiency with the kit, you start with three infusion matrices of your choice that you can craft, and may store them in infusion manuals or similar books. Only hunters may take this talent.
•	Terrifying Tracker (requires proficiency +3 or above). Whenever you succeed on tracking a creature and have them within line of sight, you gain advantage to any opposed skill check against them. You may also intimidate the target without revealing yourself (usually to steer the target into one place or another). 
•	Umbral Sight. You gain darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. If you already have darkvision from your race, its range increases by 30 feet. While in darkness, you can hide in plain sight against any creature that relies on darkvision to see you in that darkness.
You may also choose to gain a rogue or warrior talent you qualify for. 

Hunter Archetypes
An Azerothian hunter may choose one of the three below archetypes. 

Beast Master
Your bond with the land is stronger than that of other hunters, a bonded beast appropriate to your terrain has chosen to fight alongside you. Beast master hunters are the most common adventuring hunters to fight without aid.

Hunter’s Companion. At 3rd level, you gain a bound companion that accompanies you on your adventures and is trained to fight alongside you. This acts as a normal bound companion. The companion must be a beast that is no larger than Medium and that has a challenge rating of 1/2 or lower (for example, a hawk, mastiff, or panther). See Bound Companion for more details. The hunter is able to cast the bind spell to bind beasts, even if the spell is not prepared or spellcasting was removed due to the Sharpshooter ability.

Bond
Due to your bond with the beast, you can add your proficiency bonus to the beast’s AC, attack rolls, and damage rolls, as well as to any saving throws and skills it is proficient in. The beast also gains proficiency in two skills of your choice, and to all saving throws. Due to your bond, however, the companion loses the Multiattack feature (if it possesses it). 
Its hit point maximum equals its normal maximum or four times your hunter level, whichever is higher. 
Whenever you gain Extra Attack, you can give the extra attack action to your beast instead of using it yourself. This decision is made on the start of your turn on every round. 

Leveling up
Your beast companion improves in CR the higher your level becomes, CR equal to 1 per every 8 levels of Hunter (improving to 1 CR at level 4, 2 CR at level 8, and 3 CR at level 16). This either takes the form of choosing a higher-level companion, or adding hit dice to the companion until its CR increases. 
When reaching 8th level, you can choose a Large creature. The companion also gains an Ability Score Improvement once you do (this acts as the normal feature). 

Special 
While traveling through your favored terrain with your beast, you can move stealthily at a normal pace. Bonding with a beast requires spending one hour communicating with the creature by nonverbal cues, and spending the next seven hours in bonding activities (hunting, etc.). 

Spirit Bond. Beginning at 7th level, on any of your turns, you can use a bonus action to command the beast to take the Dash, Disengage, Dodge, or Help action on your turn. The beast also has advantage with any saving throw to resist spells that control or repel it (such as charm or fear spells), if the spell would cause it to abandon or betray you. 
You may also empower the spirit link to your beast. Doing so takes 1 minute of physical contact with a magic weapon (such as placing a magic sword against its paw, tapping it with a magic staff, or resting a magic bow on it). Once the task is completed, the beast’s weapon attacks are treated as magical as well for 1 hour. You may use weapons that belong to others, but not if they are attuned to others. If the weapon is attuned to you, it takes only 1 round of physical contact. 

Frenzy. Starting at 11th level, you can command your companion to attack with a bonus action, allowing it to make two attacks when it uses an action to attack on its turn. This stacks with giving your animal companion an extra attack from your Extra Attack feature. 
Your animal companion’s weapon attacks score a critical hit on a roll of 19 and 20. 

Empowered Bond. Beginning at 15th level, you and your animal companion may share the damage both of you take by dividing it by two so long as you are within 30 feet of one another, as if under the effects of the spirit link spell. 
As long as you and your animal companion are within one mile or less of one another, you may also use an action to see through your companion’s eyes and sense through their normal senses, though you are blind to your own surroundings if you do so. 

Marksman
You are a master archer or sharpshooter who excels in bringing down enemies from afar. Marksmen hunters are often favored allies in battle, as chosen shot spells and the ability to focus their fire on an enemy can turn the tide of battle. 

Careful Aim. Once you gain this archetype at 3rd level, you may use a bonus action as part of shooting to grant yourself advantage your ranged weapon attack. You cannot use this if you already moved in the previous round.

Hawk Eye. Starting at 7th level, you double your range with all ranged weapon attacks. Also, your first ranged attack in a given round is a critical hit if the target is surprised. 

Multi-Shot Strike. Starting at 11th level, whenever you successfully strike an enemy with a ranged attack, you may use a bonus action to attack any other target within 5 feet of the original target. 
You may also instead designate a 10-foot-square within the range of your ranged weapon, and bombard any number of enemies the area, dealing your normal weapon damage, plus the minimum possible damage roll from each extra attack you have (taking the lowest result on the weapon damage roll). 

Chimera Shot [Shot]. Beginning at 15th level, you gain the ability to use Chimera Shot once per Spirit modifier, regained at the end of a long rest. You may declare the use of Chimera Shot, which allows you to combine the effects of up to three different shot spells, with the mana cost of only the highest-level shot. 
If you do not have access to shot spells, you can use the properties of up to three different ammunition types (such as suffused arrows or other special ammunition). 

Survival
You are a rugged tracker who uses animal venom, explosives, and traps as deadly weapons. Survival hunters usually walk alone, but make excellent advanced scouts and explorers who can handle nearly any terrain. 

Survival Knowledge. Starting at 3rd level, you gain proficiency in engineer’s tools (though only to make traps and explosives) and the poisoner’s kit. 
You also gain +10 feet to your speed when wearing medium armor or less, and when not using a shield. 

Trap Expert. Starting at 7th level, any creature subjected to traps set by you have disadvantage to their saves, or the trap has advantage to any attack against them, and you may add your Proficiency bonus to all saving throw DCs or attack rolls made by traps you set or poisons you create. 
The trap needs only to be set by you, and not necessarily built by you. You may also add one additional explosive to any trap you set without triggering it (such as adding two mines, or one mine and a wagon clamp).

Poison Science. Starting at 11th level, you can harvest triple the normal quantity of poisons from dead creatures. You also gain resistance to all poison damage. Gaining acquired immunity to poisons or diseases requires only one-quarter the normal time. 

Grit. Starting at 15th level, you only lose a death saving throw on a dice result of a natural 1 (counts as one failure) or when being attacked while dying. 
You may also apply poisons on your weapon as a bonus action. 
Furthermore, you always count yourself as within your favored terrain for the purposes of travel (so long as you have the favored terrain talent), and whenever one of your traps harm a creature, you always treat it as if it is surprised against you, unless combat hasn’t already started. 

Mage (MGE)
Standing atop a ruined cliff-side chapel, a human mage retreats against the demonic infernal. Climbing up the side, the infernal barely has time to react, as the human raises his arms, unleashing a volley of fireballs at the infernal, before releasing a storm of ice upon the demon, sending it spiraling into the chasm below. 

Surveying the battlefield from afar, a blood elf looks to the skies, finishing the last words of the spell. The clouds part as an ice crystals form, before falling to the ground, crashing and wreaking bloody havoc amongst her adversaries. Allowing the faintest smile, she walks away from the carnage, her duty fulfilled.

The draenei mage-lord clad in violet and gold robes stands firm before fel winds. As a doomguard elite breaks his flank, he turns to it, sweeping his hand at its direction, suffusing the fiend with planar magic. The wills of the two clash, and then the doomguard roars in frustration, as he is banished from the battlefield to whence he came. Satisfied, the draenei sweeps his staff over the remaining demons. As the violet crystal sweeps over them, time slows, and they are torn apart by swords loyal to the Army of Light. 

Students gifted with a keen intellect and unwavering discipline may walk the path of the Mage. The arcane magic available to magi is both great and dangerous, and thus is revealed only to the most devoted practitioners. To avoid interference with their spellcasting, magi wear only cloth armor, but arcane shields and enchantments give them additional protection. To keep enemies at bay, magi can summon bursts of fire or storms of ice to decimate distant targets and cause entire regiments to erupt with elemental energy, or to barrage them with violet blasts of pure arcane magic.

SCHOLARS OF THE ARCANE
The wizards of Azeroth are commonly known as mages, or magi. The magi of Azeroth acknowledge the corrupting influence of arcane magic, and unlike Warlocks, they temper their advancement with cool intellect and precision. 
Mages focus on magic that creates and changes things, most often with the purpose of damaging their enemies and boosting the power of their allies. Such beings can obtain a familiar, which is a normal animal that gains new powers and becomes a magical beast when summoned to service by a mage. 
Magi also understand the workings of arcane energy so well they can counter most magic with great effectiveness. Those who have dedication to and natural predilection for one of the schools of specialization or a magic tradition becomes more entrenched. 
The magi of the Kirin Tor first mastered the art of casting spells using the elements of ice and fire. Magi are also known for being able to summon elementals, usually water elementals, but can also summon air, earth, and fire elementals. The greatest mortal mage ever to have lived might be the naga Queen Azshara (who may no longer be mortal) or the legendary human Medivh, the last Guardian of Tirisfal, who set in motion many events in the Third War.
The first known magi on Azeroth were elves. They existed before the breaking of the Well of Eternity and the Exile of the High Elves, who lived on the shores of the Well of Eternity and wielded its tremendous magic powers. When the elven kingdom made their ancient pact to aid the human kingdom of Arathi, the magi learned arcane magic as well, turning the tide of the Troll Wars to cement the human and elven presence in Azeroth. 

THE LURE OF KNOWLEDGE
Mages’ lives are seldom mundane. The closest a mage is likely to come to an ordinary life is working as a sage or lecturer in a library or university, teaching others the secrets of the multiverse. Other mages sell their services as diviners, serve in military forces, or pursue lives of crime or domination.
But the lure of knowledge and power calls even the most unadventurous mages out of the safety of their libraries and laboratories and into crumbling ruins and lost cities. Mages believe that their counterparts in ancient civilizations knew secrets of magic that have been lost to the ages, and discovering those secrets could unlock the path to a power greater than any magic available in the present age.

CREATING A MAGE
Creating a Mage character demands a backstory dominated by at least one extraordinary event. How did your character first come into contact with magic? How did you discover you had an aptitude for it? Do you have a natural talent, or did you simply study hard and practice incessantly? Did you encounter a magical creature or an ancient tome that taught you the basics of magic?
What drew you forth from your life of study? Did your first taste of magical knowledge leave you hungry for more? Have you received word of a secret repository of knowledge not yet plundered by any other mage? Perhaps you’re simply eager to put your newfound magical skills to the test in the face of danger.

QUICK BUILD
You can make a mage quickly by following these suggestions. First, Intelligence should be your highest ability score, followed by Stamina or Agility. 
Second, choose the sage background. Third, choose the mage hand, light, and frost bolt cantrips, along with the following 1st-level spells for your spellbook: burning hands, charm (humanoid), feather fall, mana shield, arcane missile, and sleep.

CLASS FEATURES
As a mage, you gain the following class features.
Hit Points
Hit Dice: 1d6 per mage level
Hit Points at 1st Level: 6 + your Stamina modifier
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d6 (or 4) + your Stamina modifier per mage level after 1st

PROFICIENCIES 
Armor: None
Weapons: Daggers, darts, slings, quarterstaffs, light crossbows
Tools: None
Saving Throws: Intelligence, Spirit
Skills: Choose two from Arcana, History, Insight, Investigation, Medicine, and Religion

EQUIPMENT
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
•	(a) a quarterstaff or (b) a dagger
•	(a) a component pouch or (b) an arcane focus
•	(a) a scholar’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack
•	A spellbook

Mage Class 
Level	Proficiency	Features			Caster Level (Spell level)
1st	+2		Invocation, Spellcasting		1 (1st)
2nd	+2		Mage Tradition			2 (1st)
3rd	+2		-				3 (2nd)
4th	+2		Ability Score Improvement	4 (2nd)
5th	+3		-				5 (3rd)
6th	+3		Mage Tradition Feature		6 (3rd)
7th	+3		-				7 (4th)
8th	+3		Ability Score Improvement	8 (4th)
9th	+4		-				9 (5th)
10th	+4		Mage Tradition Feature		10 (5th)
11th	+4		-				11 (6th)
12th	+4		Ability Score Improvement	12 (6th)
13th	+5		-				13 (7th)
14th	+5		Mage Tradition Feature		14 (7th)
15th	+5		-				15 (8th)
16th	+5		Ability Score Improvement	16 (8th)
17th	+6		-				17 (9th)
18th	+6		Spell Mastery			18 (9th)
19th	+6		Ability Score Improvement	19 (9th)
20th	+6		Signature Spell			20 (9th)

Invocation
Starting at 1st level, you may rapidly recover your mana by attuning yourself to the flows of magic. You can use your action and bonus action on your turn to regain mana as if completed a short rest (or rested for one hour). 
You can use this feature up to one time per every two points of proficiency bonus. You regain expended uses when you finish a long rest.
Alternatively, if you use this during a short rest, you are treated as if you rested for two hours instead of one. 

Spellcasting
As a student of arcane magic, you have a spellbook containing spells that show the first glimmerings of your true power. 

Cantrips
At 1st level, you know a number of cantrips equal to your proficiency bonus.

Conjuring and Binding 
A mage can conjure and bind aberrations, celestials, constructs, elementals, fey, fiends, oozes, and undead, as well homunculi creatures (creatures with the homunculus template).
	
Spellbook
At 1st level, you have a spellbook containing six 1st-level mage spells of your choice. When you level up, you gain 2 additional mage spells of your choice. You may also acquire new spells by research, tutelage, or from the spellbooks and scrolls of spellcasters who have spells you can cast. 

Preparing and Casting Spells
Each mage level provides you with 1 caster level in the mage class. You follow the normal progression to unlock spell levels (see the table under the Mana section).
You prepare the list of mage spells that are available for you to cast, choosing from the mage spell list. 
You can also change your list of prepared spells by consulting your spellbook after a long rest. Preparing a new list of mage spells requires time spent in study: at least 1 minute per spell level for each spell on your list.

Spellcasting Ability
Intelligence is your spellcasting ability for your mage spells, since you learn your mage spells through dedicated study and memorization.
You use your Intelligence whenever a spell refers to your spellcasting ability. In addition, you use your Intelligence modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a mage spell you cast and when making an attack roll with one.

Spell save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier
Spell attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier

Ritual Casting
You can cast a mage spell as a ritual if that spell has the ritual tag and you have the spell in your spellbook. You don't need to have the spell prepared.

Spellcasting Focus
You can use an arcane focus as a spellcasting focus for your mage spells.

Learning Spells of 1st Level and Higher
On your adventures, you might find other spells that you can add to your spellbook. You do not gain spells by default, and typically scribe spells from scrolls into your own spellbook, or purchase (or steal) the spellbooks of others, or research them yourself. 

Mage Tradition
When you reach 2nd level, you choose a mage tradition, shaping your practice of magic through one of eight schools, or through the disciplines of Arcane, Fire, or Frost, detailed at the end of the class description. Your choice grants you features at 2nd level and again at 6th, 10th, and 14th level. 
The most common traditions in Azeroth are the three below: Arcane, Fire, and Frost. Arcane and Frost are preferred by the students and people of Dalaran, but the grand power of Fire is nothing to be ignored. Other than the above specializations, the Necromancy and Conjuration schools (as described in the core rulebook) are common in Azeroth. 

Ability Score Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature.

Spell Mastery
At 18th level, you have achieved such mastery over certain spells that you can cast them at will with no mana cost. Choose a 2nd-level and one 3rd-level mage spell that are in your spellbook. 
You can cast those spells at their lowest level without expending mana when you have them prepared. If you want to cast either spell at a higher level (or if the spell consumes mana in its description), you must expend mana as normal. 
By spending 8 hours in study, you can exchange one or both of the spells you chose for different spells of the same levels.

Signature Spell
When you reach 20th level, you gain mastery over two powerful spells and can cast them with little effort. Choose two 4th-level mage spells in your spellbook as your signature spells. You always have these spells prepared, they don’t count against the number of spells you have prepared, and you can cast each of them once at 4th level without expending mana. When you do so, you can’t do so again until you finish a short or long rest. 
If you want to cast either spell at a higher level, you must expend mana as normal.

Mage Traditions
Arcane
You manipulate focused mysterious arcane and raw mana powers more adeptly than others, destroying enemies with overwhelming raw magic force. Arcane mages adopt a more scholarly persona than other mages. 

Arcane Spheres. Starting at 2nd level, whenever you successfully deal arcane damage to an enemy through a spell or ability, you gain one Arcane Sphere. You cannot gain more than two per round (such as by targeting two creatures). Arcane spheres may be used to empower your abilities. Arcane spheres may be spent for the following. 
•	Augmenting Arcana. Deal 1 additional point of arcane damage per damage dice with mage spells and abilities that deal arcane damage. This can be spent after rolling for damage, and applies once per spell. This does not stack with similar abilities. 
•	Mana Circulation. Reduce the mana cost of one mage spell you cast. The reduction in mana cost is one point per Arcane Sphere removed (minimum mana cost 1). This may be used once per ten minutes. 
You may have a maximum number of spheres equal to 2 plus your Proficiency bonus, and they remain for one hour after being acquired. 

Arcane Blast Mastery. Also starting at 2nd level, you gain the ability to unleash blasts of arcane force as an action. You gain the Mystic Blast feat. Unlike the normal Mystic Blast feat, you can only choose to deal arcane damage. 
Furthermore, when you suffer an attack from another Mystic Blast or similar ability (usually called Mystic, Fire, Arcane, or Shadow Blasts), you gain 1 Arcane Sphere, regardless of the damage type (unless it is fel damage). 

Presence of Mind. Starting at 6th level, you may store bits of your mental focus and concentration over the day, and then discharge the stored potential to cast a spell. When you cast a mage spell that has a casting time of 1 action, it instead becomes a bonus action. You can cast two spells in one round this way, and are not restricted to cantrips. For this purpose, Mystic Blast counts as a spell. 
Once this ability is used a number of times equal to half your proficiency bonus, it cannot be used again until after a long or short rest. 

Arcane Power. Starting at 10th level, you can open yourself to latent arcane energies, channeling power you would normally be unable to channel. 
For the next minute, every mage spell you cast costs 1 less mana point. If the spell is heightened from a lower spell level, the mana reduction is 2 points instead (to the normal minimum of 1 mana point). Once you use this ability, you cannot use it again until after a short or long rest. 

Focus Power. Starting at 14th level, you can choose to re-use arcane energies that normally dissipate into the ether when casting spells. Whenever you cast a mage spell on your turn and it affects a target or more, you can also target one of the targets with your Arcane Blast ability without spending an action. This can be used once per turn, regardless of how many targets you affect by your spell, and can only be added to spells two levels lower than your highest-level spell. If the spell has a duration more than instantaneous, you can instead choose to deliver the damage at any point of the duration instead of after instantaneously striking the target (up to a maximum of the end of the spell’s duration). 
The damage of the Arcane Blast is added to the total damage despite being of a different type (and is counted as one attack; thus, if the original spell had a saving throw to negate or half damage, the extra damage is negated or halved appropriately). 

Fire
You ignite enemies with bolts of flame and exploding fire, heating up until you deliver the final strike. Fire mages are well-appreciated engines of destruction in war. 

Controlled Destruction. Beginning at 2nd level, you can create pockets of relative safety within the effects of your fire evocation spells. When you cast a fire evocation spell that affects other creatures that you can see, you can choose a number of them equal to 1 + your intelligence modifier. The chosen creatures automatically succeed on their saving throws against the spell, and they take no damage if they would normally take half damage on a successful save.
Also, for a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus, your fire evocation spells can be used to set a target single on fire, inflicting the burning condition on a failed Stamina saving throw. The burning damage is equal to 1d6 points of fire damage, or one-quarter the number of dice the spell dealt (whichever is higher). 
You may use multiple uses on a single spell. You regain all spent uses at the end of a short rest.

Student of Flame. Also beginning at 2nd level, you may scribe evocation spells with other energy types as fire spells in your spellbook. The spells act the same way, unless the DM rules it is unreasonable (such as a slippery effect on a fire sleet spell). You also gain resistance to fire damage. 

Scorch. Starting at 6th level, you may cast fire bolt as a bonus action. Also, you may critically hit with any ranged fire spell attack on a 19 and a 20, dealing double damage. Also, whenever a creature suffers the burning condition from your fire spells, they also have disadvantage to ability checks so long as the condition remains. 

Black Fire. Starting at 10th level, you may spend a bonus action and target a creature within 30 feet, reducing its resistance to fire damage. If it is immune, it becomes resistant instead. If resistant, it takes damage normally. If it takes normal damage, it is instead vulnerable. This remains for one minute, and one creature cannot be subjected to this effect more than once for 24 hours. You can only affect one creature with this ability at any given time, and may change the target as the same action.

Pyromaniac. At 14th level, you add the pyroblast spell to your spellbook if it isn’t already within it. Whenever you critically hit with a ranged fire spell, you may spend a bonus action to gain one round of concentration on the pyroblast spell for each critical hit. The pyromaniac bonus remains for one hour or until you cast the spell, and stacks with itself. It cannot exceed the maximum damage you can deal with spell, however. For this purpose, you count as if you critically hit if one of the targets of your fire spells fails by a natural 1-2 on a saving throw, or if you score a natural 19-20 on a ranged attack with a fire spell. 

Frost
You debilitate and freeze your enemies in their tracks, before shattering them with ice magic or entombing them in it for eternity. Frost mages are usually explorers, as their ability to debilitate, slow, and evade foes gives them survivability that makes them natural to the task. 

Chilling Effects. Starting at 2nd level, you may use a bonus action to inflict the chilled condition to any target of your cold spells for one round. The condition stacks as normal, even with spells that already chill the enemy. If multiple creatures are chilled, choose a number equal to your Intelligence modifier. 

Student of Frost. Also beginning at 2nd level, you may scribe evocation spells with other energy types as cold spells in your spellbook. The spells act the same way, unless the DM rules it is unreasonable (such as a burning effect on a cold spell). You also gain resistance to cold damage.

Ice Lance. Starting at 6th level, you may cast the frost bolt cantrip as a bonus action, and you prepare it for free. 
Also, your frost bolt spell can freeze water in a 10-foot sphere (or any liquid that freezes at a similar temperature), allowing you to walk on water if you spend a bonus action every round to suffuse your step with it. The frozen path melts away in one minute (or may not if the weather is at below freezing). The path can also be broken as a bonus action (in 10-foot segments per bonus action spent). 

White Ice. Starting at 10th level, you may spend a bonus action and target a creature within 30 feet, reducing its resistance to cold damage. If it is immune, it becomes resistant instead. If resistant, it takes damage normally. If it takes normal damage, it is instead vulnerable. This remains for one minute, and one creature cannot be subjected to this effect more than once for 24 hours. You can only affect one creature with this ability at any given time, and may change the target as the same action.

Ice Statues. At 14th level, whenever you a target of your mage spells is restrained by having their speed reduced to 0 by the chilled condition, they are also incapacitated for the duration of the chilled condition. Against such targets, your frost bolt cantrip is automatically a critical hit if it successfully hits, but the chilled condition ends prematurely (and is not applied for frost bolt). 
Also, whenever you deal damage to a creature that exceeds one-half their maximum hit points at once, they are both restrained and incapacitated for one hour (or until they thaw out, whichever comes first). Both effects end prematurely if the target is hit. 

Monk (MNK)
Witnessing an orc and a human locked in battle on his land, a pandaren intervenes. Expertly placing his staff between the two combatants and intercepting, he parries every one of their blows, using their own attacks against them. Without landing a single attack on his adversaries, he emerges triumphant.

An ancient temple lays atop the snowy peak of a mountain, the violent winds cut away at the pandaren’s face as she meditates. She can feel the balance of the world, the good and bad, the calm and the rage, the silence and the storm. The mists slowly curl around her paws, filling her shivering body with warmth, soothing her aching muscles and lifting her broken spirit.

The wildhammer dwarf gathers power into himself, tattoos on his back shimmering. He then releases a single powerful blow that shatters a stone larger than he. He then turns to the three orcs hiding in the bushes, and smirks as they flee, leaving their weapons behind. 

When the pandaren were subjugated by the mogu centuries ago, it was the monks that brought hope to a seemingly dim future. Restricted from using weapons by their slave masters, these pandaren instead focused on harnessing their chi and learning weaponless combat. When the opportunity for revolution struck, they were well-trained to throw off the yoke of oppression. 
Dwarves and tauren are also familiar with the way of the monk, although they know it as rune-weaving. 

MASTERS OF THE MIND
Experts of bare-handed combat, monks never rely solely on the need to have a weapon in their hands to defend against their enemies. Although most widely known to the outside world for their fearsome jabs and flying kicks, they refuse to limit themselves to a single method of combat. 
Many monks prefer instead to “soak it up” and seem to revel in the intoxicating effect of absorbing blow after blow while their companions press the attack. Other monks specialize in calling upon the restorative power of the mists to balance the good and bad energy within people, returning them to good health and fortune. Monks make careful study of a magical energy that most monastic traditions call chi. 
This energy is an element of the magic that suffuses the multiverse—specifically, the element that flows through living bodies. Monks harness this power within themselves to create magical effects and exceed their bodies’ physical capabilities, and some of their special attacks can hinder the flow of chi in their opponents. Using this energy, monks channel uncanny speed and strength into their unarmed strikes. As they gain experience, their martial training and their mastery of chi gives them more power over their bodies and the bodies of their foes.

DISCIPLINE AND HARMONY
Monks bring a unique martial arts style to any fight, and harness an exotic form of magical energy that’s unfamiliar to those who practice other arcane arts. They seek spiritual balance in life and in combat, and as dangerous as monks can be on the battlefield, they’re rarely looking to pick a fight without just cause. 
They view the world through a different lens, finding power through serenity and inner peace—then expressing it through artful combat techniques and powers that mend life. Perhaps most surprisingly, Monks are also adept at producing powerful brews they consume to aid them in battle.
Some monks live entirely apart from the surrounding population, secluded from anything that might impede their spiritual progress. Others are sworn to isolation, emerging only to serve as spies or assassins at the command of their leader, a noble patron, or some other mortal or divine power.

CREATING A MONK
The Monks of Azeroth usually follow Pandaren monastery tradition, ever since they were subjugated by the mogu. They usually act independently from factions, seeing the ebb and flow of right and wrong to belong with neither sides, and can be found in the most unusual of places, seeking wisdom or enlightenment. 
As you make your monk character, think about your connection to the monastery where you learned your skills and spent your formative years. Were you an orphan or a child left on the monastery’s threshold? Did your parents promise you to the monastery in gratitude for a service performed by the monks? Did you enter this secluded life to hide from a crime you committed? Or did you choose the monastic life for yourself?
Consider why you left. Did the head of your monastery choose you for a particularly important mission beyond the cloister? Perhaps you were cast out because of some violation of the community’s rules. Did you dread leaving, or were you happy to go? Is there something you hope to accomplish outside the monastery? Are you eager to return to your home? If you are a dwarf or tauren, do you follow the old ways of rune-weaving? Why have you chosen this path over others, and how do you compare your ancient traditions with the more structured beliefs of the pandaren monks?
As a result of the structured life of a monastic community and the discipline required to harness chi, monks are almost always lawful in alignment.

QUICK BUILD
You can make a monk quickly by following these suggestions. First, make Agility your highest ability score, followed by Spirit. Second, choose the hermit background.

CLASS FEATURES
As a monk, you gain the following class features.

HIT POINTS
Hit Dice: 1d8 per monk level
Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Stamina modifier
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Stamina modifier per monk level after 1st

PROFICIENCIES
Armor: None
Weapons: Simple weapons, shortswords, darts, quarterstaffs
Tools: Choose one type of artisan’s tools or one musical instrument. 
Saving Throws: Strength, Agility
Skills: Choose two from Acrobatics, Athletics, History, Insight, Religion, and Stealth

EQUIPMENT
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
•	(a) a shortsword or (b) any simple weapon
•	(a) a dungeoneer’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack
•	10 darts
•	A keg of brew or tea

SPECIAL FEATURES
Talents. If you wish to recreate the original 5e Monk, choose the following talents the appropriate levels: 
•	Unarmored Movement as the first talent at 2nd level
•	Slow Fall as the second talent at 4th level
•	Evasion as the third talent at 7th level
•	Unarmored Movement II as the fourth talent at 9th level
•	Slippery Mind as the fifth talent 14th level

Monk Class
Level	Proficiency	Martial	Talents		Features
1st	+2		1d4	-		Unarmored Defense, Martial Arts
2nd	+2		1d4	1		Ki, Monk Talent
3rd	+2		1d4	1		Monk Tradition, Deflect Missiles
4th	+2		1d4	2		Ability Score Improvement
5th	+3		1d6	2		Extra Attack, Stunning Strike
6th	+3		1d6	2		Ki-Empowered Strikes, Monk Tradition feature
7th	+3		1d6	3		Stillness of Mind
8th	+3		1d6	3		Ability Score Improvement
9th	+4		1d6	4		-
10th	+4		1d6	4		Purity of Body
11th	+4		1d8	4		Monk Tradition feature
12th	+4		1d8	4		Ability Score Improvement
13th	+5		1d8	4		Tongue of the Sun and Moon
14th	+5		1d8	5		Monk Talent
15th	+5		1d8	5		Timeless Body
16th	+5		1d8	5		Ability Score Improvement
17th	+6		1d10	5		Monk Tradition feature
18th	+6		1d10	5		Empty Body
19th	+6		1d10	5		Ability Score Improvement
20th	+6		1d10	5		Perfect Self

Unarmored Defense
Beginning at 1st level, while you are wearing no armor and not wielding a shield, your AC equals 10 + your Agility modifier + your Spirit modifier.

Martial Arts
At 1st level, your practice of martial arts gives you mastery of combat styles that use unarmed strikes and monk weapons, which are shortswords and any simple melee weapons that don’t have the two-handed or heavy property.
You gain the following benefits while you are unarmed or wielding only monk weapons and you aren’t wearing armor or wielding a shield:

•	You can use Agility instead of Strength for the attack and damage rolls of your unarmed strikes and monk weapons.
•	You can roll a d4 in place of the normal damage of your unarmed strike or monk weapon. This die changes as you gain monk levels, as shown in the Martial column of the Monk table. If you have a greater damage die, you may choose that instead. 
•	When you use the Attack action with an unarmed strike or a monk weapon on your turn, you can make one unarmed strike as a bonus action. For example, if you take the Attack action and attack with a quarterstaff, you can also make an unarmed strike as a bonus action, assuming you haven't already taken a bonus action this turn.
Certain monasteries use specialized forms of the monk weapons. For example, you might use a nunchaku (club that is two lengths of wood connected by a short chain) or a kama (sickle with a shorter, straighter blade), or even a large tankard of alcohol (club). Whatever name you use for a monk weapon, you can use the game statistics provided for the weapon.

Ki
Starting at 2nd level, your training allows you to harness the mystic energy of ki (or Chi within Pandaren circles). Your access to this energy is represented by a number of ki points. You have a number of Ki points equal to your monk level. 
You can spend these points to fuel various ki features. You start knowing three such features: Flurry of Blows, Patient Defense, and Step of the Wind. You learn more ki features as you gain levels in this class.
When you spend a ki point, it is unavailable until you finish a short or long rest, at the end of which you draw all of your expended ki back into yourself. 

You must spend at least 30 minutes of the rest meditating to regain your ki points. Some of your ki features require your target to make a saving throw to resist the feature’s effects. 
The saving throw DC is calculated as follows: 
Ki save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Spirit modifier.

Flurry of Blows
Immediately after you take the Attack action on your turn, you can spend 1 ki point to make two unarmed strikes as a bonus action.

Patient Defense
You can spend 1 ki point to take the Dodge action as a bonus action on your turn.

Step of the Wind
You can spend 1 ki point to take the Disengage or Dash action as a bonus action on your turn, and your jump distance is doubled for the turn.

Casting Ki Spells 
Some monk abilities allow you to cast spells. To cast one of these spells, you use its casting time and other rules, but you don’t need to provide material components for it. You can spend additional ki points to the original value to increase the level of the spell that you cast, provided that the spell has an enhanced effect at a higher level, as burning hands does. The spell's level increases by 1 for each additional ki point you spend. For example, if you are a 5th-level Brewmaster and use Breath of Fire to cast burning hands, you can spend 2 ki points to cast it as a 2nd-level spell or 3 ki and cast it as a 3rd level spell. The maximum number of ki points you can spend to cast a spell in this way (including its base ki point cost and any additional ki points you spend to increase its level) is determined by your monk level, as shown in the Spells and Ki Points table. Your effective spellcasting ability score is Spirit. 

Monk Talent 
Starting at 2nd level, you may gain one monk talent, abilities that represent your various special abilities, either by use of Ki, natural grace in movement, or esoteric fighting techniques. 
Whenever you qualify for another talent (as detailed under the talent column), you can choose another talent or gain another use of an existing talent. 
All abilities have DCs of 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Strength or Agility modifier (your choice) if they allow a saving throw.
You may also choose to gain a talent from outside this class’s list so long as you qualify for it. 

Monk Tradition
When you reach 3rd level, you commit yourself to a monk tradition: the way of the Brewmaster, who excels in mysterious drinks, the way of the Mistweaver, who heals themselves and others, or the way of the Windwalker, the adventurous and evasive combatant. 
All traditions are detailed at the end of the class description. Your tradition grants you features at 3rd level and again at 6th, 11th, and 17th level.

Deflect Missiles
Starting at 3rd level, you can use your reaction to deflect or catch the missile when you are hit by a ranged weapon attack. When you do so, the damage you take from the attack is reduced by 1d10 + your Strength or Agility modifier (your choice) + your monk level. 
If you reduce the damage to 0, you can catch the missile if it is small enough for you to hold in one hand and you have at least one hand free. If you catch a missile in this way, you can spend 1 ki point to make a ranged attack with the weapon or piece of ammunition you just caught, as part of the same reaction. You make this attack with proficiency, regardless of your weapon proficiencies, and the missile counts as a monk weapon for the attack. The range of this ability is 20/60 feet.

Ability Score Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. 
As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature.

Extra Attack
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.

Stunning Strike
Starting at 5th level, you can interfere with the flow of ki in an opponent’s body. When you hit another creature with a melee weapon attack, you can spend 1 ki point to attempt a stunning strike. The target must succeed on a Stamina saving throw or be stunned until the end of your next turn. This is a strike effect. 

Ki-Empowered Strikes
Starting at 6th level, your unarmed strikes count as magical for the purpose of overcoming resistance and immunity to non-magical attacks and damage.

Stillness of Mind
Starting at 7th level, you can use your action to end one effect on yourself that is causing you to be charmed or frightened.

Purity of Body
At 10th level, your mastery of the ki flowing through you makes you immune to disease and poison.
Furthermore, whenever you make a saving throw and fail, you can spend 1 ki point to reroll it and take the second result. 

Tongue of the Sun and Moon
Starting at 13th level, you learn to touch the ki of other minds so that you understand all spoken languages. Moreover, any creature that can understand a language can understand what you say.

Timeless Body
At 15th level, your ki sustains you so that you suffer none of the frailty of old age, and you can't be aged magically. You can still die of old age, however. In addition, you no longer need food or water. 

Empty Body
Beginning at 18th level, you can use your action to spend 4 ki points to become invisible for 1 minute. During that time, you also have resistance to all damage but arcane damage.
Additionally, you can spend 8 ki points to cast the astral projection spell, without needing material components. When you do so, you can’t take any other creatures with you.

Perfect Self
At 20th level, when you roll for initiative and have no ki points remaining, you regain 4 ki points.

Monk Talents
•	Unarmored Movement. Your speed increases by five feet per proficiency bonus you have while you are not wearing armor or wielding a shield. This talent can be chosen again at proficiency +3, allowing you to move along vertical surfaces and across liquids on your turn without falling during the move so long as you benefit from the speed increase. 
•	Slow Fall. You can use your reaction when you fall to reduce any falling damage you take by an amount equal to five times your level. If you would have landed on a target of an attack you would make, you may deal extra damage equal to half the amount of fall damage reduced by this talent, provided you succeed on the attack roll. In some circles, this ability is known as a drop kick. This extra damage is a strike effect.

Monk Traditions
Brewmaster
You are focused on evading blows and empowering themselves and your allies through your brews. Brewmasters make the most common of monk adventurers. 

Brewmaster Focus. Upon reaching 3rd level and gaining this monk tradition, you may add the following Ki power to your repertoire. 
•	Breath of Fire. As an action, you can spend 1 Ki to cast the burning hands spell. This requires only verbal components. You can spend additional Ki to heighten the spell.

Brewmaster Ki. Upon reaching 6th level, you gain the following new Ki powers and add them to your repertoire. 
•	Purifying Touch [Strike]. As an action, you can spend 3 Ki and cast the dispel magic spell. This requires touching the effect or creature that is subject to the effect. You may use this as a touch or as a strike effect. You can spend additional Ki to heighten the spell. 
•	Drunken Style Stance. You can use a bonus action to enter the drunken style stance. So long as you are in this stance, use of the Step of the Wind Ki ability does not spend Ki. Furthermore, due to your consistent drunken interventions, a target successfully struck by one of your melee weapon attacks has have disadvantage to attack rolls to attacks that do not target you, and reduces its spell DCs and spell attack bonus by 4 points if the spell does not include you. This effect remains for until the beginning of your turn in the next or so long as your stance is still active. 
This stance is broken if you move more than your normal speed in a single round.

Ox Stance [Stance]. Starting at 11th level, you may enter this stance as a bonus action by spending 2 Ki. While in this stance, you may add your Spirit modifier to all saving throws, and gain temporary hit points equal to your level. If you are subjected to damage that deals more than one-fourth your hit points while in this stance, you gain resistance to the attack suffered. 
When you succeed on an Agility saving throw against an effect and take no damage, you may enter this stance as a reaction for only 1 Ki point. Once you gain temporary hit points from this stance, you cannot gain them again until a short rest. You may still benefit from the rest of this ability.

Zen Pose [Stance]. Starting at 17th level, you can use your action to enter a Zen Pose by spending 2 Ki. So long as you do not take damage from an attack and do not fail a saving throw, your enemies have disadvantage to attack rolls against you, and you have advantage to all saving throws. Whenever you make a successful saving throw due to the advantage, or when a hostile target misses you with an attack roll due to the disadvantage, you regain 1 Ki point.
This requires that the first attack roll succeeded or that your first saving throw failed, but the Zen Pose’s benefits negated the success.

Mistweaver
You are focused on empowering and supporting allies. Mistweavers are usually the most elusive of the monk disciplines. 

Mistweaver Focus. Upon reaching 3rd level and gaining this monk tradition, you may add the following Ki power to your repertoire. 
•	Soothing Mist. As an action, you may expend Ki and gain a cloud of healing mists. The creature gains 5 hit points for every Ki point invested. You may target a creature up to 15 feet away (or a number of creatures within 30 feet of one another), and distribute healing amongst as many creatures as you wish. If benefitting from Thunder Focus Tea, this ability heals 5 extra hit points (as if you spent 1 Ki point without actually spending it). 
If you already used your action to attack a hostile creature and landed at least one successful hit, you may use this ability as a bonus action instead.
You may alternatively expend hit points from your pool of healing to cure the target of one disease or neutralize one poison affecting it, with a number of hit points required equal to one-half the saving throw DC of the poison (round up). You can cure multiple diseases and neutralize multiple poisons with a single use of Soothing Mist, expending hit points separately for each one. This feature has no effect on constructs or undead. 

Mistweaver Ki. Upon reaching 6th level, you gain the following new Ki powers and add them to your repertoire. 
•	Control Ki. As an action, you may spend 2 Ki to cast the mute spell. Upon reaching 9th level, you may also cast dispel magic as a 3rd level spell. You may either cast them with their normal ranges, or imbue them into your brews if you have the Brewer feat. In this case, they are the only imbued effect. You can spend Ki to heighten this effect. 
•	Mist Weave. As an action, you can spend 2 Ki to cast the fog cloud and blink step spells. You can spend Ki to heighten this effect.
Furthermore, so long as you have at least 2 Ki, you suffer only light obstruction, and never heavy obstruction from mist and fog. 

Life Cocoon. Starting at 11th level, you may spend 2 Ki points designate an allied creature with a cocoon of Ki as an action, which remains for 1 minute. While invigorated this way, the creature gains 2d10 temporary hit points. So long as the temporary hit points remain, the target heals 25% more hit points from healing effects. 
A creature cannot benefit from life cocoon more than once every 24 hours. You may use this ability on yourself while stunned or asleep, but not while incapacitated. 

Enlightenment. Starting at 17th level, you may spend 7 Ki to cast the resurrection spell, or 4 Ki to cast the revivify spell. Once the resurrection spell is cast, you cannot cast it again until you complete a short rest, regardless if you have Ki remaining. 

Windwalker
You are focused on hand-to-hand combat and evasion of the enemy’s blows. Windwalkers are usually the most confrontational of the monk disciplines. 

Windwalker Focus. Upon reaching 3rd level and gaining this monk tradition, you may add the following Ki power to your repertoire.
•	Superior Martial Arts. As an action, you may spend 2 Ki and deal your unarmed damage as an area of effect (expending any number of attacks). You may choose to make it a 5-foot-burst around you (Hurricane Kick), a 10-foot cone (Fists of Fury), or a 15-foot line (Flying Serpent Kick). You may move within the specified area of effect without provoking reactions from the creatures in the area of effect (such as kicking through a line of enemies and landing behind them with a Flying Serpent Kick, or shifting 5 feet to the right after a Hurricane Kick, or moving 10 feet to one side after a Fists of Fury). 
This action counts as if you made an unarmed attack strike for the purposes of your Martial Arts feature and Flurry of Blows ability. 

Windwalker Ki. Upon reaching 6th level, you gain the following new Ki powers and add them to your repertoire. 
•	Destroy Mana [Strike]. As an action, you may spend 2 Ki to cast the mana burn spell. This requires touching the effect or creature that is subject to the effect, and does not require vocal components. You can choose to make this ability destroy Ki instead, in which case it removes half the mana points it would normally remove. You may treat this as a strike effect. You can spend Ki to heighten this effect.
•	Rising Sun [Strike]. As a bonus action, you may perform an upwards kick, dealing unarmed damage and imposing an additional effect. You may also choose between dealing extra 2d6 damage, or adding 1d6 to any melee weapon attack you make against the target for the next minute. If the target succeeds on a Strength saving throw, they take half the 2d6 extra damage, or, if you chose the second option, ignore the extra damage. 

Combo Attacks. Starting at 11th level, you score a critical hit with your weapon attacks on a 19-20. If you already possess this range, the range increases by 1 point to 18-20. When you score a critical hit, you may either use any one Ki ability with no action or Ki cost (such as flurry of blows, Rising Sun, your Superior Martial Arts abilities, or Quivering Palm once you gain it), or choose to regain 2 Ki. 

Quivering Palm. At 17th level, you gain the ability to set up lethal vibrations in someone’s body. When you hit a creature with an unarmed strike, you can use a bonus action and 3 Ki to start these imperceptible vibrations, which last for a number of days equal to your monk level. The vibrations are harmless unless you use your action to end them. To do so, you and the target must be on the same plane of existence. When you use this action, the creature must make a Stamina saving throw. If it fails, it is reduced to 0 hit points. If it succeeds, it takes 10d10 shadow damage instead. You may place these vibrations even with a harmless touch (which may require a Deception check opposed to Insight).
You can have only one creature under the effect of this feature at a time. You can choose to end the vibrations harmlessly without using an action. 

Paladin (PLD)
A draenei pores over an ancient libram, moving its pages by his mere will. Summoning a blessing, he shuts the tome as light arises from his hooves to the heavens. Hefting his crystalline greathammer, he exits, aware that his return is unlikely at best.

Huddled together, two young orcs cower as a fierce dragon lands with a resounding crash atop the chieftain’s hut. She roars before spewing liquid fire upon the great watchtower, revealing the orcs in the light. She releases a blast of flame at them—but then stops. The red inferno dissipates to reveal tauren clad in golden plate, holding aloft a mighty shield that blocked her fire. Telling the orcs to run, the tauren prepares himself to face the dragon alone, satisfied he has bought the young orcs the time they needed to escape.

A human rides through haunted plaguelands on a wounded steed. As he nears an abandoned barn, his hooded head jerks up in answer to hisses released from undead throats. Six ghouls skulk from the interior of the barn to surround the rider, who shows no fear. As the first stalks forward, the rider raises his hand, releasing a burst of holy light from the very earth to burn the ghouls from within. After his deed is done, the rider continues on, the land still marked with his power, freed from the unholy blight. 

This is the call of the paladin: to protect the weak, to bring justice to the unjust, and to vanquish evil from the darkest corners of the world. These holy warriors are equipped with plate armor so they can confront the toughest of foes, and the blessing of the Light allows them to heal wounds and, in some cases, even restore life to the dead.

THE CAUSE OF RIGHTEOUSNESS
Paladins are virtuous defenders of the weak, and tireless, unfaltering enemies of the undead. Mixing elements of the warrior and the clerics of the Holy Light, the paladin is a tough melee fighter.
The paladin is a warrior of the Holy Light. They uphold all that is good and true in the world and revile all that is evil and sinister, especially undead and the Burning Legion. They offer succor to the beleaguered and smite their enemies with holy fervor. They are particularly potent against undead, as these creatures threaten the goodly races and the Holy Light burns them terribly. The presence of any evil is reprehensible to paladins, but they focus their efforts on destroying undead and demons.
These warriors uphold the tenets of the Holy Light and defend their factions from the predations of any threat. Found in almost every corner of Azeroth fighting the forces of evil and barbarism, these stalwart warriors of faith ceaselessly uphold their vigil against demonic forces from beyond the Dark Portal. Paladins are the embodiment of good and selfless dedication to the protection of their peoples. They help the innocent and punish the wicked. As such, paladins are generally of good alignment.

BEYOND THE MUNDANE LIFE
Almost by definition, the life of a paladin is an adventuring life. Unless a lasting injury has taken him or her away from adventuring for a time, every paladin lives on the front lines of the cosmic struggle against evil. 
Fighters are rare enough among the ranks of the militias and armies of the world, but even fewer people can claim the true calling of a paladin. When they do receive the call, these warriors turn from their former occupations and take up arms to fight evil. Sometimes their oaths lead them into the service of the crown as leaders of elite groups of knights, but even then their loyalty is first to the cause of righteousness, not to crown and country. Adventuring paladins take their work seriously. A delve into an ancient ruin or dusty crypt can be a quest driven by a higher purpose than the acquisition of treasure. Evil lurks in dungeons and primeval forests, and even the smallest victory against it can tilt the cosmic balance away from oblivion.

CREATING A PALADIN
The most important aspect of a paladin character is the nature of his or her holy quest. Although the class features related to your oath don’t appear until you reach 3rd level, plan ahead for that choice by reading the oath descriptions at the end of the class. 
Are you a devoted servant of good, loyal to justice and honor, a holy knight in shining armor venturing forth to smite evil? Are you a glorious champion of the Light, cherishing everything beautiful that stands against the shadow? Are you a defender who can stand before sea of foes without flinching? Or are you an embittered loner sworn to deliver retribution on those who have done great evil?

QUICK BUILD
You can make a paladin quickly by following these suggestions. First, Strength should be your highest ability score, followed by Charisma. Second, choose the noble background. Third, choose the following 1st-level spells for your libram: compelled duel, holy light, and seal array (righteousness).

CLASS FEATURES
As a paladin, you have the following class features.

HIT POINTS
Hit Dice 1d10 per paladin level
Hit Points at 1st Level 10 + your Stamina modifier
Hit Points at Higher Levels 1d10 (or 6) + your Stamina modifier per paladin level after 1st

PROFICIENCIES
Armor: All armor, shields
Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons
Tools: None
Saving Throws: Stamina, Charisma
Skills: Choose two from Athletics, Insight, Intimidation, Medicine, Deception, and Religion. 

EQUIPMENT
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
• (a) a martial weapon and a shield or (b) two martial weapons
• (a) five javelins or (b) any simple melee weapon
• (a) a priest’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack
• Chain mail, a holy symbol, and a holy libram

Paladin Class 
Level	Proficiency	Features					Caster level (Spell level)
1st	+2		Divine Sense, Lay on Hands			-
2nd	+2		Crusader Strike, Fighting Style, Spellcasting	1 (1st)
3rd	+2		Aura (Devotion), Holy Oath			2 (1st)
4th	+2		Ability Score Improvement			2 (1st)
5th	+3		Extra Attack					3 (2nd)
6th	+3		Divine Health, Aura (Retribution)		3 (2nd)
7th	+3		Holy Oath Feature				4 (2nd)
8th	+3		Ability Score Improvement			4 (2nd)
9th	+4		-						5 (3rd)
10th	+4		Aura (Crusader)					5 (3rd)
11th	+4		Improved Crusader Strike			6 (3rd)
12th	+4		Ability Score Improvement			6 (3rd)
13th	+5		-						7 (4th)
14th	+5		Cleansing Touch, Aura (Concentration)		7 (4th)
15th	+5		Holy Oath Feature				8 (4th)
16th	+5		Ability Score Improvement			8 (4th)
17th	+6		-						9 (5th)
18th	+6		Aura (Resistance), Aura Improvement		9 (5th)
19th	+6		Ability Score Improvement			10 (5th)
20th	+6		Holy Oath Feature				10 (5th)

Divine Sense
The presence of strong evil registers on your senses like a noxious odor, and powerful good rings like heavenly music in your ears. As an action, you can open your awareness to detect such forces. Until the end of your next turn, you know the location of any celestial, fiend, or undead within 60 feet of you that is not behind total cover. You know the type (celestial, fiend, or undead) of any being whose presence you sense, but not its identity (the lich Kel’Thuzad, for instance). Within the same radius, you also detect the presence of any place or object that has been consecrated or desecrated, as with the hallow spell. You can use this feature a number of times equal to 1 + your Charisma modifier. When you finish a long rest, you regain all expended uses.

Lay on Hands
Your blessed touch can cure wounds. As an action, you may lay your hands on a target, investing them with healing energies. For every mana point you spend for Lay on Hands, you heal a number of hit points equal to your proficiency bonus. Amount you heal is instead treated as holy damage for undead and fiends (in which case, this requires a melee spell attack). Excess hit points are lost. When performing Lay on Hands on yourself, this is instead a bonus action. 
Alternatively, you can expend the mana to cure one disease or one poison of your choice. Each disease or poison requires spending mana points equal to one-quarter the saving throw DC of the poison or disease. You may cure multiple diseases or poisons this way. This feature has no effect on constructs. 

Crusader Strike
Starting at 2nd level, when you hit a creature with a melee weapon attack, you can expend mana as if you cast a spell to deal holy damage to the target, in addition to the weapon’s damage. The extra damage is 1d8 plus 1d8 per spell level (maximum 6d8 with a 5th level spell). If the target is a fiend or an undead, you gain +5 to the strike’s damage. 
If you have a seal active, you may also perform a Crusader Strike without expending mana (called Seal Release or Judgment), terminating the effects of the seal (plus an additional effect depending on the seal). Despite the name, Crusader Strike does not count as a Strike effect. 

Fighting Style
At 2nd level, you adopt a style of fighting as your specialty. Choose one of the following options. You can’t take a Fighting Style option more than once, even if you later get to choose again.

Defense
While you are wearing armor, you gain a +1 bonus to AC.

Dueling
When you are wielding a melee weapon in one hand and no other weapons, you gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls with that weapon.

Great Weapon Fighting
When you roll a 1 or 2 on a damage die for an attack you make with a melee weapon that you are wielding with two hands, you can reroll the die and must use the new roll. The weapon must have the two-handed or versatile property for you to gain this benefit.

Protection
When a creature you can see attacks a target other than you that is within 5 feet of you, you can use your reaction to impose disadvantage on the attack roll. You must be wielding a shield.

Spellcasting
By 2nd level, you have learned to draw on divine magic through meditation and prayer to cast spells as a priest does. 

Conjuring and Binding 
A paladin can conjure and bind celestials. 

Preparing and Casting Spells
Each paladin level provides you with 0.5 caster levels in the paladin class (minimum 0). You follow the normal progression to unlock spell levels (see the table under the Mana section).
You can also change your list of prepared spells by consulting your libram (treat as a spellbook) after a long rest. Preparing a new list of paladin spells requires time spent in study: at least 1 minute per spell level for each spell on your list.

Spellcasting Ability
Charisma is your spellcasting ability for your paladin spells, since their power derives from the strength of your convictions. You use your Charisma whenever a spell refers to your spellcasting ability. In addition, you use your Charisma modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a paladin spell you cast and when making an attack roll with one.
Spell save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier
Spell attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier

Spellbook – Libram
At 2nd level, your libram contains three 1st-level paladin spells of your choice. When you level up, you gain 2 additional paladin spells of your choice. You may also acquire new spells by research, tutelage, or from the spellbooks and scrolls of spellcasters who have spells you can cast. 
Your libram is effectively your spellbook, and you may add spells by scribing it with new insights regarding the faith and how to protect and promote it.

Spellcasting Focus
You can use your holy libram as a spellcasting focus for your paladin spells, as well as the store for them.

Aura
Starting at 3rd level, your mastery over aura spells begins to manifest. You always have the following aura spells prepared. 
•	At 3rd level, you always have the devotion aura spell prepared.
•	At 6th level, you always have the retribution aura spell prepared.
•	At 10th level, you always have the crusader aura spell prepared.
•	At 14th level, you always have the concentration aura spell prepared.
•	At 18th level, you always have the resistance aura spell prepared.
Furthermore, you may cast each of the above aura spells for no cost once upon reaching the described level. You regain all expended uses after a short rest. 

Holy Oath
When you reach 3rd level, you walk a path that defines you as a paladin forever. Up to this time you have been in a preparatory stage, committed to the path but not yet sworn to it. 
You may choose the Oath of Holiness to aid the helpless, Oath of Protection to guard the weak, or Oath of Retribution to smite the wicked, all detailed at the end of the class description.
Your choice grants you features at 3rd level and again at 7th, 15th, and 20th level. Those features include oath spells and the Channel Divinity feature.

Oath Spells
Each oath has a list of associated spells. You gain access to these spells at the levels specified in the oath description. Once you gain access to an oath spell, you always have it prepared. Oath spells don’t count against the number of spells you can prepare each day.
If you gain an oath spell that doesn’t appear on the paladin spell list, the spell is nonetheless a paladin spell for you.

Channel Divinity
Your path allows you to channel divine energy to fuel magical effects. Each Channel Divinity option provided by your path explains how to use it. When you use your Channel Divinity, you choose which option to use. You must then finish a short or long rest to use your Channel Divinity again. Some Channel Divinity effects require saving throws. When you use such an effect from this class, the DC equals your paladin spell save DC.
You may always Turn Undead, and you gain an additional choice from your Path. 

Channel Divinity: Turn Undead
As an action, you present your holy symbol and speak a prayer censuring fiends and undead, using your Channel Divinity. Each fiend or undead that can see or hear you within 30 feet of you must make a Spirit saving throw. 
If the creature fails its saving throw, it is turned for 1 minute or until it takes damage. A turned creature must spend its turns trying to move as far away from you as it can, and it can’t willingly move to a space within 30 feet of you. It also can’t take reactions. For its action, it can use only the Dash action or try to escape from an effect that prevents it from moving. If there’s nowhere to move, the creature can use the Dodge action.

Ability Score Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. 
As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature.

Extra Attack
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.

Divine Health
Starting at 6th level, the divine magics flowing within you grant you immunity to diseases and advantage against poison, as well as resistance against poison damage. 

Improved Crusader Strike
By 11th level, you are so suffused with the might of the Light that all your melee weapon strikes carry its divine power with it. Whenever you hit a creature with a melee weapon, the creature takes an extra 1d8 holy damage. If you also use your Crusader Strike with an attack, you add this damage to the extra damage of your Crusader Strike.

Cleansing Touch
Beginning at 14th level, you can use your action to end one spell on yourself or on one willing creature that you touch.
You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Charisma modifier (a minimum of once). You regain expended uses when you finish a long rest.

Aura Improvement
Also starting at 18th level, you have advantage to any check to maintain an aura, and may extend the range of any aura spell by 100%. Any effect that would normally dispel the aura instead suppresses it for 1 minute instead. 

Sacred Oaths
An Azerothian Paladin chooses from one of the below three sacred oaths. 

Oath of Holiness
Your oath is to heal and inspire your allies. Holy paladins are common, and are usually well-regarded battle healers. 

Oath of Holiness Spells
Level	Spells
3rd	Protection from evil and good, sanctuary
5th	Lesser restoration, zone of truth
9th	Beacon of hope, revivify (or redemption)
13th	Freedom of movement, guardian of faith
17th	Commune, mass revivify (or mass redemption)

Channel Divinity: Light of Dawn. When you take this oath at 3rd level, you can spend a Channel Divinity use and an action, to present your holy symbol and release an outburst of the Holy Light of Creation, allowing one friendly creature within 30 feet to use a hit dice as if they rested. The ally also gains temporary hit points equal to double your Charisma modifier. 

Holy Vision. At 3rd level, whenever you cast a healing spell from the paladin spell list and the dice shows the maximum possible result (such as a 6 on a d6), you may roll the maximized dice again and add the amount healed to the total. This applies to healing spells that deal damage to undead. This does not stack with other similar abilities. 
This acts similarly to the Light’s Insight ability of the holy priesthood. If having both features, and if the re-rolled dice results in a maximum result as well, you may roll a third time. 

Holy Auras. At 7th level, your auras increase in strength. You may maintain two aura spells at once as if they cost one case of concentration. Furthermore, your allies can benefit from two auras at a time. 
Also, whenever an ally is within one of your aura spells, they are more easily healed by you.
If you are using a paladin healing spell, it can heal one additional dice of damage to them. 
If you are using the Lay on Hands feature, it can heal 25% extra hit points. 

Latent Prayer. Starting at 15th level, you may cast a healing spell on a creature that only activates whenever the creature wishes. This does not require concentration on your end, and the creature (or you) may declare use of the spell as a reaction. This effect remains for one day or until used, and leaves a holy mark that can be detected as the healing spell. A single creature can only benefit from one latent prayer until they take a long rest. This may also be applied to undead to harm them (if possible). 
If you use this ability while under the effect of the avatar form paladin spell, you can affect a second time in the same period. 

Illuminated Healer. By 20th level, whenever a creature that benefits from a healing effect (such as Light of Dawn, or healing spell) originating from you manifest a holy shield. This holy shield grants them temporary hit points equal to the amount they were healed by you. The holy shield does not increase the amount shielded if the healing spell was a critical hit. 
This shield remains until the hit points are reduced to 0, or until ten minutes have passed. This effect does not stack with itself, and a creature can benefit from a single holy shield only once every hour. Your healing spells critically hit on d20 roll of one point less (or 18 if it was 19-20). 

Oath of Protection
Your oath is to guard your allies and all friends of the Holy Light. Protection paladins are very tough foes who can survive hefty abuse. 

Oath of Protection spells
Level	Spells
3rd	Sanctuary, shield
5th	Lesser restoration, warding bond
9th	Beacon of hope, revivify (or redemption)
13th	Aura of life, death ward
17th	Mass cure wounds (or hope of healing), wall of force (projected from an upheld shield)

Channel Divinity: Rook’s Move. When you take this oath at 3rd level, you may spend a Channel Divinity use to swap places with any ally as a reaction. Choose an ally that is about to be attacked by a weapon attack, or an ally who took damage from a weapon attack roll. The two of you change places, ignoring attacks of opportunity provoked as part of movement and difficult terrain. The ally must be within 30 feet of you, you must have a clear path to them, and the target must be of your size category or smaller. 
If you use this ability before the attack roll is made, but you must declare use of this ability before knowing whether the attack would hit the ally. The attack roll is made against your normal AC. 
If you declare this ability after the attack roll is successful, the attack is automatically successful, and you switch places, even if you would have otherwise been unharmed (it such as by having a higher AC value than the attacker’s attack roll).

Avenger’s Shield. Starting 3rd level, you may throw a shield you are wearing as a ranged thrown attack (even if it is normally strapped to your arm). The shield acts as a ranged thrown weapon with a range of 30/60 feet that deals 1d4 + your Strength modifier in damage. The damage dealt is half holy and half bludgeoning, and furthermore the target is disrupted for until the beginning of your turn in the next round. The shield returns instantaneously to your hand, and may be used again in the same round. 
Also, so long as you are using a shield, you cannot lose concentration on an aura spell due to damage. The Improved Auras ability grants you advantage to any concentration spell from the Paladin spell list instead.

Opportune Prayer. Starting at 7th level, whenever you reduce an enemy to 0 hit points, you may cast a healing spell from the paladin spell list as a reaction (so long as the spell has a maximum casting time of 1 action). You may also do this whenever you score a critical hit, are hit with a critical hit, or when reduced to 0 hit points.
Furthermore, so long as you have multiple attacks, you can spend them to allow your Avenger’s Shield to target multiple creatures. Regardless if the shield hits or misses, it may target another creature within 30 feet of the first target (up to one target per attack action spent this way). When you no longer have any extra attacks or choose to stop the bounce, the shield returns to you. 
If you are under the effects of the avatar form paladin spell, you can bounce your shield at one extra target. 

Holy Sentinel. Starting at 15th level, whenever you hit a creature with an opportunity attack, the creature’s speed is reduced to 0 for until the beginning of your turn in the next round. Creatures within 5 feet of you provoke opportunity attacks from you even if they take the Disengage action before leaving your reach. 
Also, whenever a creature within 5 feet of you makes an attack against a target other than you, you can use your reaction to make a melee weapon attack against the attacking creature. 

Ardent Defender. At level 20, you may, as a reaction, you may gain resistance to all damage for one round. Once this feature is used a number of times equal to your Charisma modifier, it cannot be used again until you complete a long rest.
When you no longer have uses of this ability, your Opportune Prayer ability allows you to cast any paladin spell when it is triggered instead (subject to the same casting time restriction). 

Oath of Retribution
Your oath is to bring retribution to the wicked, avenging wrongs made but not settled. Retribution paladins are often wandering knights, hunting down villains and depraved monsters. 

Oath of Retribution spells
Level	Spell
3rd	Compelled duel, heroism
5th	Branding smite, warding bond
9th	Daylight, haste
13th	Death ward, guardian of faith
17th	Aligned weapon (or holy weapon), flame strike (or argent cleansing)

Channel Divinity: Sword of Light. When you take this oath at 3rd level, you can spend a Channel Divinity use and an action to imbue one weapon that you are holding with positive energy. For 1 minute, you add your Charisma modifier to attack rolls made with that weapon (a minimum bonus of +1). The weapon also emits bright light in a 20-foot-radius and dim light 20 feet beyond that. If the weapon is not already magical, it becomes magical for the duration. 
You can end this effect on your turn as a bonus action. If you are no longer holding or carrying this weapon, or if you fall unconscious, this effect ends. The light is treated as a light spell of your highest level paladin level.

Arm of the Law. At 3rd level, whenever you release a seal or perform a Crusader Strike, you may Dash as a bonus action. You may also perform Crusader Strike at a range of 30 feet as a ranged spell attack. The damage is equal to the holy damage dealt by the ability as well as any seal release effects, and does not include your weapon damage roll. 

Sword of Truth. Starting at 7th level, you add your Charisma modifier to your melee weapon damage rolls. 
Also, whenever you perform a Crusader Strike, you can regain hit points equal to half the holy damage you dealt using the ability. 

Divine Storm. Starting at 15th level, whenever you use a Crusader Strike, you may allow the holy energy to radiate from you. All hostile creatures within 5 feet of you suffer the same holy damage dealt by the ability, halved on a successful Spirit saving throw against your spell DC. 
If you released a seal, the release effect is applied only to the initial creature. You also only regain hit points appropriate to the damage you dealt the initial target. 
If you are under the effects of the avatar form paladin spell, you may reroll any 1 or 2 on a damage dice for your Crusader Strike, and you must choose the new roll, even if the new roll is a 1 or a 2. 

Emancipate. At level 20, your Cleansing Touch ability may be used at a range of 10 feet, and you may always cast it on yourself, even when otherwise incapacitated. 
Furthermore, whenever you have no mana points remaining or uses of Cleaning Touch, you may spend hit dice to fuel your Crusader Strike feature (up to one hit dice per spell level). 

Priest (PRS)
A human screams in agony as blood gushes from the wound in his chest. A night elf comes to his aid, whispering a prayer to Elune, before nocking an arrow to her bow. Moonlight breaks through the tree canopy above, as the gash in the human’s chest heals closes.

As an orc receives arrow after arrow to the chest, he falls to the ground, motionless. Before long, a yellow-white light shines upon him, and climbs to his feet, revealing a blood elf behind, raising her staff high, bathed in a similar light.

Testing the boundaries of his sanity, a forsaken taps into the power of his psyche and calls to the Forgotten Shadow, melting the mind of a fanatic bent on scourge his kin from the land.

Through priests, the divine powers of the Light and Void channel into the world, mending wounds or wreaking havoc. True mastery of these forces comes through worship to greater beings, such as Elune, the Old Gods, or even the Holy Light itself. Whether devoted to the Light, or a servant of the Void Lords, a priest is an ambassador for their deity, imbued by the energies they deliver.

AGENTS OF LIGHT OR SHADOW
Wielding the power of the Holy Light, priests can unleash powerful healing energies to restore their allies and undo harm. Manipulating the shadows from the Void equips a priest with devastating abilities, able to bring complete chaos, shattering the minds of their foes. Careful balance and discipline permits a priest to truly master the most absolute energies of the Universe, granting them the ability to heal through shadow, and harm through the light.
Comprehension of the light allows a priest to heal the most serious of wounds, and even undo death. The power to wield the light doesn’t require extensive practice or study, instead relying on the user’s faith in their own abilities. Those who follow the ways of the Void were often once worshippers of the Light. As such, priests are among the most devout people in Azeroth.
A priest is incredibly useful in battle, no matter their discipline. Whether they heal their allies, protect them from harm altogether, or blast the minds of their enemies into submission, few are more effective than these devout followers of the Light and Shadow, especially when coupled with their influence in greater society.

SERVANTS AND ACOLYTES
Many across Azeroth practice divine magic, regardless of intermediaries, and as such many cults have formed. Servitude of the Light brings restorative healing powers, while giving oneself to the Shadow grants power over the mind, shadows and even insanity itself. A priestess of Elune taps into powers of nature and the balance of sun and moon, while a priest of death calls to the Lich King to curse his foes. 
Whether good or evil, a priest will rarely abandon their cause, often fighting to the death, or sacrificing themselves in place of an ally. Finding someone as loyal as a priest is a rare thing indeed.
Found all over Azeroth, a priest of the Church of the Holy Light brings healing and restorative powers in times of peace, and protection in times of war, a true advocate for good. A death priest of the Lich King or a follower of the Cult of the Forgotten Shadow manipulates the shadows to bring death and destruction to their enemies, warping their minds into madness, often serving evil purposes, though not always. A follower of Elune can serve her goddess’s will, setting out to right wrongs or to retrieve articles of the faith. 
It is not unheard of for servants of the Light to use it for evil. Since the Light responds to belief that one’s actions are right, which makes it impossible to wield it in the knowledge that one’s action are truly evil.
Absolute faith is crucial to harnessing the Light, which is why priests make excellent servants. Many priests that have abandoned the Light and have opted to harness darker energies retain their devotion, and while many question their motives, their faith is unwavering, and they continue to serve their deity.

CREATING A PRIEST
Priest of Azeroth are known as priests or clerics, depending on their domains and focus. They channel their power through their conviction, not through the direct power of their patrons. The Scarlet Crusade, for example, channel the Holy Light due to their belief in their cause, although many betray principles the Church of the Holy Light considers tenants of the faith. 
As you create your priest, always remember the faith you serve and the ideals your character conveys. Decide how your character came into the service of that particular faith or cult, such as through divine intervention or through your character’s own choosing. Are you renowned as a devout follower of your deity, a fanatic, a troublemaker? How do others of your faith perceive you? If you have an ultimate goal, keep it in mind when you advance your character.
Priests may be of any alignment and allegiance. 
Priests serve their faith--either that of the Light through the Holy priesthood, the Old Gods though the Shadow priesthood, the Lich King through the Death priesthood, taking a neutral stance between the forces of the world with Discipline priesthood, or serving the Moon goddess Elune through the universally-female Moon priesthood. 

QUICK BUILD
You can make a priest quickly by following these suggestions. First, Spirit should be your highest ability score, followed by Strength or Stamina. Second, choose the acolyte background. Third, choose the light, smite, and word of radiance cantrips, along with the following 1st-level spells for your libram: inner fire, holy light (or death coil), mind blast, renewing light, sanctuary, and shield of faith.

CLASS FEATURES
As a priest, you gain the following class features.

HIT POINTS
Hit Dice: 1d8 per priest level
Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Stamina modifier
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Stamina modifier per priest level after 1st

PROFICIENCIES 
Armor: Light armor
Weapons: All simple weapons
Tools: None
Saving Throws: Spirit, Charisma
Skills: Choose two from History, Insight, Medicine, Persuasion, and Religion

EQUIPMENT
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
•	(a) a club or (b) a quarterstaff 
•	(a) leather armor, or (b) chain shirt (if proficient)
•	(a) a light crossbow and 20 bolts or (b) any simple weapon
•	(a) a priest’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack
•	A holy (or unholy or neutral) symbol and libram

Priest Class
Level	Proficiency	Features 					Caster level (Spell level)
1st	+2		Priesthood, Spellcasting, Unarmored Defense	1 (1st)
2nd	+2		Channel Divinity (1/rest), Priesthood Feature, 	2 (1st)
Desperate Prayer
3rd	+2		-						3 (2nd)
4th	+2		Ability Score Improvement			4 (2nd)
5th	+3		Destroy Undead (CR 1/2)			5 (3rd)
6th	+3		Channel Divinity (2/rest), Priesthood Feature	6 (3rd)
7th	+3		-						7 (4th)
8th	+3		Ability Score Improvement, Destroy 		8 (4th)
Undead (CR 1), Priesthood Feature
9th	+4		-						9 (5th)
10th	+4		Divine Intervention				10 (5th)
11th	+4		Destroy Undead (CR 2)				11 (6th)
12th	+4		Ability Score Improvement			12 (6th)
13th	+5		-						13 (7th)	
14th	+5		Destroy Undead (CR 3)				14 (7th)
15th	+5		-						15 (8th)
16th	+5		Ability Score Improvement			16 (8th)
17th	+6		Destroy Undead (CR 4), Priesthood Feature	17 (9th)
18th	+6		Channel Divinity (3/rest)			18 (9th)
19th	+6		Ability Score Improvement			19 (9th)
20th	+6		Divine Intervention Improvement		20 (9th)

Priesthood
Choose one priesthood or domain related to your deity: Death (Lich King), Discipline (Balance), Holy (Holy Light), Moon (Elune), or Shadow (Forgotten Shadow). Each priesthood is detailed at the end of the class description. Your choice grants you domain spells and other features when you choose it at 1st level. It also grants you additional ways to use Channel Divinity when you gain that feature at 2nd level, and additional benefits at 6th, 8th, and 17th levels. 

Spellcasting
As a practitioner of divine magic, you draw your power from the divines themselves, channeling their will through your body.  

Cantrips
At 1st level, you know a number of cantrips equal to your proficiency bonus.

Conjuring and Binding 
A priest can conjure and bind aberrations, beasts, celestials, elementals, fey, fiends, oozes, and undead, as well homunculi creatures (creatures with the homunculus template). 

Preparing and Casting Spells
Each priest level provides you with 1 caster level in the priest class. You follow the normal progression to unlock spell levels (see the table under the Mana section).
You prepare the list of priest spells that are available for you to cast, choosing from the priest spell list. 
You can also change your list of prepared spells by consulting your libram (treat as a spellbook) after a long rest. Preparing a new list of priest spells requires time spent in study: at least 1 minute per spell level for each spell on your list.

Spellcasting Ability
Spirit is your spellcasting ability for your priest spells, since you learn your priest spells through dedication to a higher force. 
You use your Spirit whenever a spell refers to your spellcasting ability. In addition, you use your Spirit modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a priest spell you cast and when making an attack roll with one.
Spell save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Spirit modifier
Spell attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Spirit modifier

Priesthood Spells
Each priesthood has a list of spells—its priesthood spells—that you gain at the priest levels noted in the priesthood description. Once you gain a priesthood spell, you always have it prepared, and it doesn’t count against the number of spells you can prepare each day. 
If you have a priesthood spell that doesn’t appear on the priest spell list, the spell is nonetheless a priest spell for you.

Spellbook – Libram
At 1st level, your libram contains six 1st-level priest spells of your choice. When you level up, you gain 2 additional priest spells of your choice. You may also acquire new spells by research, tutelage, or from the spellbooks and scrolls of spellcasters who have spells you can cast. 
Your libram is effectively your spellbook, and you may add spells by scribing in your insights regarding the secrets of the powers you serve.

Spellcasting Focus
You can use your holy symbol as a spellcasting focus for your priest spells. 

Unarmored Defense
Beginning at 1st level, while you are wearing no armor and not wielding a shield, your AC equals 10 + your Agility modifier + your Spirit modifier.

Channel Divinity
At 2nd level, you gain the ability to channel divine energy directly from your deity, using that energy to fuel magical effects. You start with two such effects: Turn Undead and an effect determined by your priesthood. Some domains grant you additional effects as you advance in levels, as noted in the domain description. When you use your Channel Divinity, you choose which effect to create. You must then finish a short or long rest to use your Channel Divinity again. 
Some Channel Divinity effects require saving throws. When you use such an effect from this class, the DC equals your priest spell save DC. Beginning at 6th level, you can use your Channel Divinity twice between rests, and beginning at 18th level you can use it three times between rests. When you finish a short or long rest, you regain your expended uses.

Channel Divinity: Turn Undead
As an action, you present your holy symbol and speak a prayer censuring the undead. Each undead that can see or hear you within 30 feet of you must make a Spirit saving throw. If the creature fails its saving throw, it is turned for 1 minute or until it takes any damage. 
A turned creature must spend its turns trying to move as far away from you as it can, and it can’t willingly move to a space within 30 feet of you. It also can’t take reactions. For its action, it can use only the Dash action or try to escape from an effect that prevents it from moving. If there’s nowhere to move, the creature can use the Dodge action.

Desperate Prayer
Starting at 2nd level, you may rapidly recover your mana by invoking powers from beyond. You can use your action and bonus action on your turn to regain mana as if completed a short rest (or rested for one hour). 
You can use this feature up to one time per every two points of proficiency bonus. You regain expended uses when you finish a long rest.
Alternatively, if you use this during a short rest, you are treated as if you rested for two hours. 

Ability Score Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature.

Destroy Undead
Starting at 5th level, when an undead fails its saving throw against your Turn Undead feature, the creature is instantly destroyed if its challenge rating is at or below a certain threshold, as shown in the Destroy Undead table.

Destroy Undead Table
Priest Level	Destroys Undead of CR
5th		1/2 or lower
8th		1 or lower
11th		2 or lower
14th		3 or lower
17th		4 or lower

Divine Intervention
Beginning at 10th level, you can call on your deity to intervene on your behalf when your need is great. 
Describe the assistance you seek, and roll percentile dice. If you roll a number equal to or lower than your priest level, your deity intervenes. The DM chooses the nature of the intervention; the effect of any priest spell or priesthood spell would be appropriate.
Imploring your deity’s aid requires you to use your action. 
If your deity intervenes, you can’t use this feature again for 7 days. Otherwise, you can use it again after you finish a long rest. At 20th level, your call for intervention succeeds automatically, no roll required.

Priesthoods
A priest can be under one of the below priesthoods.

Death Priesthood
You follow the Lich King, gaining unholy powers from your devotion to the Dark Lord of the Dead. Death priesthoods are feared and reviled figures in civilized societies, as they are often seen as harbingers for a Scourge invasion. 

Death Priesthood Spells
Level	Spells
1st	Bane, sleep
3rd	Gentle repose, see invisibility
5th	Conjure undead (animate undead), speak with dead
7th	Blight, drain life
9th	Contagion, unhallow

Death Can Wait. At first level, you gain advantage against all Death Saving Throws, attempts to stabilize, and saves against necromancy spell effects. 
You may also sacrifice yourself ritually to become a shade, gaining incorporeality (see Introduction), but becoming unable to cast spells. You gain telepathy with who sacrificed you, and may communicate with them and share what you see as an action from their part. This remains so long as you and your lord are in the same plane. The connection may be willingly transferred to another creature. The transformation is complete after one day of death, and cannot be reversed short of a wish spell or divine intervention.

Channel Divinity
Death priests exchange the ability to Turn Undead with Turn Living, as below. 

Channel Divinity: Turn Living
You may turn any living creature instead of turning undead. This has no effect on constructs. This is a fear effect. 

Lich King’s Favor. Starting at 2nd level, you add all necromancy spells from all spell lists to your spell list. Using necromancy spells that are not on your spell list cost 1 additional mana point.

Destroy Living
Starting at 5th level, when a living creature fails its saving throw against your Channel Divinity feature, the creature is instantly destroyed if its challenge rating is at or below a certain threshold, as shown in the Destroy Living table. It disintegrates, leaving only a pile of dust, so commands the Lich King. 

Priest Level	Destroys Living of CR
5th		1/2 or lower
8th		1 or lower
11th		2 or lower
14th		3 or lower
17th		4 or lower

Cultist of the Damned. Starting at 6th level, you can cast any Necromancy spell as a ritual even if it doesn't have the ritual tag. 

Death's Touch. At 8th level, you may use an action to target any dying creature within 90 feet with a ranged spell attack. The creature fails one death saving throw instantly. You also have Resistance to shadow damage. 

Avatar of Death. At 17th level you have the “Command Undead” ability as if you were a Necromancer equal to your priest level. Also when using your Death's Touch ability any target that dies while you are touching them cannot be resurrected or reincarnated. They can however be raised as Undead.

Discipline Priesthood 
You follows the tenets of balance and self-improvement, balancing the forces of Light and Shadow within you—a concept often called Chakra training. Your magics can shield allies from taking damage as well as heal their wounds. Discipline priests do not advertise themselves, but act as other priests. 

Discipline Priesthood Spells
Level	Spells
1st	Arcane armor, sanctuary
3rd	Aid (or power word fortitude), levitate
5th	Remove curse, warding bond
7th	Death ward, stoneskin
9th	Hold (up to 4 creature types), telekinesis 

Chakra Ward. Beginning at 1st level, while you are wearing no armor and not wielding a shield, you take 3 less damage from all slashing, piercing, and bludgeoning damage (minimum 1). 

Extended Wards. Also beginning at 1st level, you double the duration of any active spell that grants temporary hit points and all Power Word spells. 

Channel Divinity: Damage Ward. Starting at level 2, you may use a channel divinity attempt to grant any ally within 30 ft. resistance against any type of damage they specify. This resistance remains for until the end of your turn the next round. 

Channel Divinity: Reflecting Ward. Starting at 6th level, whenever a creature benefitting from your Damage Ward ability is damaged, you may deflect a fraction of the damage back to the aggressor. 
This requires a successful ranged spell attack, and on a success, the creature damaging your ally take damage equal to half the damage they dealt to the warded target. This does not alter the type of damage dealt. 

Chakra Cleansing. Starting at 8th level, whenever you cast a shielding spell, you may perform one of the two abilities with a bonus action. 
•	You may dispel any magical effect the target suffers from. This acts as dispel magic with a spell level equal to the level of the shielding spell you cast. 
•	You may grant additional temporary hit points equal to double the spell level. 

Infused Shield. Starting at 17th level, whenever you cast a healing or shielding spell, you may freely convert temporary hit points from your priest spells to actual hit points, or vice versa. A healing spell that grants temporary hit points is counted as a shielding spell, and benefits from the Chakra Cleansing, Extended Wards, and Shielding Power abilities. 

Holy Light Priesthood
You are a vessel of the Holy Light’s will, a versatile healer who can reverse damage on individuals or groups and even heal from beyond the grave. Holy priests are well-adored and respected among the Alliance. 

Holy Priesthood Spells
Level	Spells
1st	Bless, holy light
3rd	Lesser restoration, spiritual weapon
5th	Beacon of hope, revivify
7th	Death ward, guardian of faith
9th	Mass cure wounds (or hope of healing), mass revivify

Light’s Insight. Starting at 1st level, whenever you cast a healing spell from the priest spell list and the dice shows the maximum possible result (such as a 6 on a d6), you may roll the maximized dice again and add the amount healed to the total. This applies to healing spells that deal damage to undead. This acts similarly to the Holy Vision ability of the holy oath. If having both features, and if the re-rolled dice results in a maximum result as well, you may roll a third time. 

Light’s Embrace. Also starting at 1st level, your healing spells are more effective. Whenever you use a priest spell of 1st level or higher to restore hit points to a creature, the creature regains additional hit points equal to 2 + the spell’s level. If the spell heals multiple creatures, the additional healing is added to the total, not to each creature. 
You may also turn fiends when you use your Channel Divinity to turn undead. 

Channel Divinity: Restore Life. Starting at 2nd level, you may use your action while presenting your holy symbol to evoke healing energy that can restore a number of hit points equal to five times your priest level. Choose any creatures within 30 feet of you, and divide those hit points among them. This feature can restore a creature to no more than half of its hit point maximum. You can’t use this feature on a construct, but may target undead to damage by expending healing, dealing holy damage instead of healing them. 

Channel Divinity: Focused Casting. Starting at 6th level, you may use a channel divinity attempt to alter the target of any sigil healing spell you cast on a target. This does not reduce the duration, and may be used outside the target’s turn. You may use this instead to grant the target another benefit of the sigil spell in the same round. This does not cost an action.

Angelic Form. Starting at 8th level, you gain the avatar form priest spell for no cost if you didn’t already have it. Furthermore, you augment the spell in the following ways:
•	You can cast the spell as a reaction when reduced to 0 hit points. When this happens, the spell also restores one-quarter your full hit points and mana. If you enter the avatar form this way cast healing, restorative, and domain spells so long as the form persists. 
•	When you cast the spell, you can dispel one magical effect on you (as if by the dispel magic spell, spell level equal to the avatar form spell). 
After the spell’s duration ends, you return to your normal form, and are reduced to 10% of your maximum hit points. You also learn celestial, if you don’t already know how to speak it.

Guardian Spirit. Starting at 17th level, you may target any ally within 30 ft., granting them a guardian angel spirit. This spirit increases the amount of healing taken from all your priest spells by 25%, and may be sacrificed to either grant resistance against any one attack the target, or automatically stabilize the target if they are reduced to 0 hit points. This does not affect constructs or undead. This may be used once per rest. 

Moon Priesthood
You are part of the ancient and well-respected sisterhood of the night-elven moon goddess Elune, and your path is of serenity, grace, and reflection. Moon priestesses favor using subtlety, the bow, and hit-and-run techniques to guard her flock, but act in accordance with the two faces of the moon. 

Moon Priesthood Spells 
Level	Spells
1st	Shot array (all except black arrow), trueshot aura
3rd	Invisibility, moonbeam
5th	Remove curse, shooting star
7th	Dominate, hallucinatory terrain
9th	Dream, starfall

Facets of the Moon Goddess. Upon choosing this priesthood, you become attuned to the dual faces of Elune, the goddess of the moon. Whenever the moon (or one moon of your realm) enters a new phase, you may adapt that aspect of Elune. This choice is made at the end of a long rest. This changes how some of your priesthood features act. 
•	Full Moon Aspect. The full moon aspect of Elune is known as the Mother Moon. It is more adept with healing and providing support, as well as ranged combat, and represents calm wisdom and righteous, precise action.
•	New Moon. The new moon aspect of Elune is known as the Night Warrior. It is more adept with melee combat, and represents the furious savagery of nature, vengeful aspects of the goddess, and her shepherding the souls of the dead to beyond the stars. 
You are also always able to see the moon (or its outline, if it if you have line of sight to it, even in daylight. In the new moon phase, you can see the moon’s outline. You cannot gain normally benefits from observing it except at night, however, when Elune’s power waxes, unless the power specifies so. 

Might of the Moon. Starting at 1st level, so long as you can observe the moon and are at night, you are affected by the inner fire spell (level equal to highest spell level you can access). In other conditions, the bonus provided by the spell is halved (minimum 0). 
You do not require have to be outdoors to benefit from this feature. If there are multiple moons in the realm you are in, any moon suffices. 

Favor of Elune. Also starting at 1st level, you gain the Favored by Elune hunter talent, and gain proficiency with all ranged projectile weapons and medium armor. You also gain a one of the following blessings, depending on the lunar phase you have chosen. 
Full Moon Priestess. You may add your spirit modifier to damage rolls with bows of all types.
New Moon Priestess. You may choose one fighting style (chosen from the list of the warrior class). 

Channel Divinity: Moonlight Calm. Starting at 2nd level, when you channel divinity, you may channel an aspect of Elune’s grace to calm a creature within 30 feet of you. You may target a humanoid or beast, or a creature in another shape (such as a druid in wild shape or a shapeshifter).
•	If you target a beast or humanoid, the creature must succeed on a Charisma saving throw or it is charmed by you for 1 minute or until it takes damage. While it is charmed by you, it is friendly to you and other creatures you designate. If you treat them fairly, they do not revert to their original hostility after the duration ends. 
•	If you target a Druid in their Wild Shape or a shapeshifting creature, they revert to their original shape if they fail a Charisma saving throw, and cannot shapeshift for one minute. They may repeat the saving throw at the end of their turn every round. 

Channel Divinity: Moonlight Ward. Starting at 6th level, you may spend a Channel Divinity use as a bonus action and designate one ally within 30 feet as your moonlight ward. The ward remains for 1 minute. Depending on the phase of the moon, your ward has one of the following effects:
•	Full Moon. So long as the ally remains within range, you may use a bonus action to heal the target with any healing spell from the priest spell list that normally requires an action. If the spell normally costs a bonus action to cast (such as the flash of light spell), it may instead cast it as a reaction. 
•	New Moon. So long as the ally within range, you can cast any spell that deals psychic or shadow damage as a bonus action so long as you target a creature who attacked your moonlit ward in the last round. If the spell normally costs a bonus action to cast (such as the flash of light spell), it may instead cost a reaction. You cannot cast sigil spells this way. 
If you successfully dealt weapon damage to an enemy before using the moonlight ward, the mana cost of the spell (healing or damaging, respectively) is reduced by 1 (minimum 1). This can stack with the normal reduction for repeat-casting a spell.

Elune’s Grace. Starting at 8th level, you can bless creatures with a shard of your goddess’s grace. Depending on your chosen phase, you can grant a creature you affect by your spells one of the below blessings. Once you use the blessings three times, you cannot bless another creature until you complete a short rest. You may use multiple blessings per round (they do not require an action). 
•	Full Moon. You priest spells that restore hit points heal the maximum amount for the dice for one target. 
•	New Moon. Your priest spells that deal psychic or shadow damage deal maximum damage for the dice for one target. 
If you are under the effects of the avatar form priest spell, you can use the blessing two additional times before a short rest. 

Moon's Luck. Starting at 17th level, you gain the Lucky feat. You have a number of Luck Points equal to half of your Priest level (rounded down) in the following conditions, depending on the phase you have chosen:
•	Full Moon. When you are under direct moonlight.
•	New Moon. When you are under the new moon.
You may use Luck Points to use your Elune’s Grace feature instead of the number of limited blessings. In other conditions to the ones specified, each Luck Point has half the benefit (requiring spending two points instead of one for a benefit of the feat). 

Shadow Priesthood
You answered the call of the Old Gods, joining the Cult of the Forgotten Shadow, gaining powers over the eldritch mysteries and powers of the ancient changed beings. Shadow Priests use sinister shadow magic, especially sigil spells, to eradicate enemies. 

Shadow Priesthood Spells
Level	Spells
1st	Dissonant whispers, sleep
3rd	Fear, hex array (only dream eat)
5th	Blight, curse of weakness
7th	Black tentacles (or old gods’ grasp), confusion
9th	Hold (up to 4 creature types), vampiric aura

Shadow Orbs. Starting at 1st level, whenever you successfully deal psychic damage to an enemy through a spell or ability, you gain one Shadow Orb. You cannot gain more than two per round (such as by targeting two creatures or the first instance of damage dealt by a sigils). Shadow orbs spheres may be used to empower your abilities. Shadow Orbs may be spent for the following. 
•	Meld into Madness. Reduce the mana cost of one priest spell you cast. The reduction in mana cost is one point per Shadow Orb removed (minimum mana cost 1). This may be used once per ten minutes. If you have at least madness level, the cooldown between each use of this sub-ability is reduced by two minutes. 
•	Prey on the Psyche. Deal 1 additional point of psychic damage per damage dice with spells and abilities that deal psychic damage. This can be spent after rolling for damage, and applies once per spell. This does not stack with similar abilities. 
You may have a maximum number of orbs equal to 2 plus your Proficiency bonus, and they remain for one hour after being acquired. 

Mind Quickening. Also starting at 1st level, your expanded mind gives you the ability to touch the minds of other creatures. You can communicate telepathically with any creature you can see within 30 feet of you. You don’t need to share a language with the creature for it to understand your telepathic utterances, but the creature must be able to understand at least one language. 
You may also pronounce the verbal components of your priest spells mentally, so that only the target can hear them. This way, you cast spells in areas of silence or while muted. 

Channel Divinity: Devouring Plague. Starting at 2nd level, you may use an action while presenting your unholy symbol to evoke dark energy, dealing psychic damage equal to five times your priest level, halved with a Spirit saving throw. Choose any creatures within 30 feet of you, and divide the damage among them. This feature can reduce a creature to no more than half of its hit point maximum. You can’t use this feature on undead or constructs. You regain hit points equal to the total damage you dealt. 
If you have at least one shadow orb before using this ability, you may choose to gain no shadow orbs from this ability’s use for the round, and share the healing gained with them (costing one shadow orb to include one creature in the sharing). 
You may reduce the amount of hit points you (and your chosen allies) can potentially gain from this ability and convert the healing energies to mana restoration. Every five hit points of healing are converted to one mana point (up to a maximum of half the healing potential). Once a creature benefits from this mana restoration, it cannot benefit again until it completes a long rest. 

Channel Divinity: Focused Psyche. Starting at 6th level, you may use a channel divinity to alter the target and refresh the duration of any damaging sigil spell you cast on a target. This may be used outside your turn, possibly recovering from a dispelled sigil by shifting it to another target. This requires a spell attack as normal. This costs a reaction if used outside your turn, and a bonus action if on your turn.

Shadow Form. Starting at 8th level, you gain the avatar form priest spell for no cost if you didn’t already have it. Furthermore, you augment the spell in the following ways:
•	You can cast the spell as a reaction when reduced to 0 hit points. When this happens, the spell also restores one-quarter your full hit points and mana. If you enter the avatar form this way, you can only cast psychic, sigil, and domain spells so long as the form persists. 
•	When you cast the spell, you can dispel one magical effect on you (as if by the dispel magic spell, spell level equal to the avatar form spell). 
After the spell’s duration ends, you return to your normal form, and are reduced to 10% of your maximum hit points. You also learn shath’yar, if you don’t already know how to speak it.

Vampiric Embrace. Starting at 17th level, whenever you deal damage with a damaging sigil or psychic effect, you may can heal quarter the damage and grant it as healing to allies within 30 feet of the target, dividing the healing evenly. You may instead divide the damage by ten, and grant it as mana restoration to the same amount of targets. Unlike normal mana restoration effects, this can benefit a target up to three times before it cannot be used again for an hour, although you cannot restore more mana to yourself than the cost of the spell you used. 
 
Rogue (RGE)
A hooded figure walks towards the entrance of a shop, as a crow as black as night flies from its rest above the shop’s sign. The human shopkeeper studies the man carefully, before sliding a book from its shelf. The bookcase slowly creaks open and the hooded figure enters the dark passage. As the figure passes, they toss a single silver piece with an odd symbol to the counter top, which is quickly collected by the shopkeep. 

Lost, a traveler finds a mansion in the middle of the woods. Starving and cold, she approaches the manor. Inside the guests lay motionless, slumped over their dinner. She slowly walks up to the head of the table, where she sees the heavy frame of a man. She notices a wide cut in his neck, as a sharp pain is felt in her chest. As the traveler looks down, a black dagger protrudes from her abdomen. Falling to the ground she sees the rotten grin of a forsaken, as blood spills to the ground and she draws her last breath.

In a run-down inn on the coast, a band of sailors drink and sing merrily into the night. Suddenly a goblin, clad in leather and armed with a shortsword and loaded pistol, strolls in. All faces turn to the wanted sign across the room mirroring the goblin intruder’s face. With a grin the goblin cocks her pistol, and in a few moments, the goblin leaves the inn once more, swinging a few purses stained with blood.

SKILL AND PRECISION
Rogues possess a wide range of skills that allow them to accomplish feats from finding secret doors to smacking a magic item until it works. They are excellent in a fight, and if they can strike quickly or unseen — or are flanking an enemy with the help of a thoughtful ally — they can be truly deadly. Of course, they also excel at stealth.
The rogues of Azeroth are the masters of subterfuge, skilled and cunning adversaries of those who dare not look into the shadows to see what lurks there. Roguery is a profession for those who seek the adventures of stalking in silent forests, dimly lit halls, and heavily guarded strongholds. Using trickery in combat and able to vanish at the slightest distraction, the rogue is a welcome addition to any group of adventurers. Ideal spies, deadly to those they can catch unaware, rogues have no problem finding a place in the world. Deadly masters of stealth, rogues are the whispers in shadowy corners and the hooded figures crossing dark fields. Skilled with daggers and the art of silent death, these vagabonds and bandits skulk about Azeroth seeking targets and profit. A member of almost any race can learn the tricks necessary to become a skilled rogue. Still, for the tauren and draenei, such a profession is an alien concept and therefore rare among those peoples. Whether they are diplomats, spies, thieves, scoundrels, entertainers, or simply adventurers, they can be found plying just about any trade from Mount Hyjal to Ratchet.

A SHADY LIVING
Rogues fend for themselves, looking for fights in which they dictate the terms. They’re the shadows in the night that remain unseen until the right moment comes to strike—then they dispatch an opponent with quick blade work or a deadly toxin snuck acutely into the bloodstream. Rogues are opportunistic thieves, bandits, and assassins, but there’s an unparalleled art to what they do.
From the high-contract assassin hired in secret by respected noblemen to the lowly street mugger, rogues are the ones called upon when maintaining the status quo requires a questionable solution — and by fulfilling it, they are branded as outcasts by the very society that calls upon their service.
In Azeroth, rogues are largely free agents, though some prefer to join an organization for safety and ease of employment. Ravenholdt and the Syndicate are examples. Other recognized rogue organizations include the Shattered Hand, the Deathstalkers, and SI:7.

CREATING A ROGUE
As you create your rogue character, consider the character’s relationship to the law. Do you have a criminal past—or present? Are you on the run from the law or from an angry thieves’ guild master? Or did you leave your guild in search of bigger risks and bigger rewards? Is it greed that drives you in your adventures, or some other desire or ideal?
What was the trigger that led you away from your previous life? Did a great con or heist gone terribly wrong cause you to reevaluate your career? Maybe you were lucky and a successful robbery gave you the coin you needed to escape the squalor of your life.
Did wanderlust finally call you away from your home? Perhaps you suddenly found yourself out off from your family or your mentor, and you had to find a new means of support. Or maybe you made a new friend—another member of your adventuring party—who showed you new possibilities for earning a living and employing your particular talents.
Rogues represent thieves, treasure-hunters, cunning spies, and aspiring adventurers. Using their skills and cunning (and sometimes gifted with a knack for technology or strange magics), rogues are always welcome to any faction, and many works for more than two at any given time as scouts, double agents, and false merchants. 
For rogues, the only code is the contract, and their honor is purchased in gold. Free from the constraints of a conscience, these mercenaries rely on brutal and efficient tactics. Lethal assassins and masters of stealth, they will approach their marks from behind, piercing a vital organ and vanishing into the shadows before the victim hits the ground.

QUICK BUILD
You can make a rogue quickly by following these suggestions. First. Agility should be your highest ability score. Make Intelligence your next-highest if you want to excel at Investigation. Choose Charisma instead if you plan to emphasize deception and social interaction. Second, choose the charlatan background.

CLASS FEATURES
As a rogue, you have the following class features.

HIT POINTS
Hit Dice: 1d8 per rogue level
Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Stamina modifier
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Stamina modifier per rogue level after 1st

PROFICIENCIES
Armor: Light armor
Weapons: Simple weapons, hand crossbows, longswords, rapiers, scimitars, shortswords
Tools: Thieves’ tools or Poisoner’s Kit
Saving Throws: Agility, Intelligence
Skills: Choose four from Acrobatics, Athletics, Deception, Insight, Intimidation, Investigation, Perception, Performance, Persuasion, Sleight of Hand, and Stealth

EQUIPMENT
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
•	(a) a rapier or (b) a shortsword
•	(a) a shortbow and quiver of 20 arrows or (b) a shortsword
•	(a) a burglar’s pack, (b) a dungeoneer’s pack, or (c) an explorer’s pack
•	Leather armor, two daggers, and thieves’ tools or poisoner’s tools
One use of a poison (a vial, a dash, etc.) are considered creations of moderate complexity (1 day) to create. 

SPECIAL FEATURES
Talents. If you wish to recreate the original 5e Rogue, choose the following talents the appropriate levels: 
•	Cunning Action as the first talent at 2nd level
•	Uncanny Dodge as the second talent at 5th level
•	Evasion as the second talent at 7th level
•	Reliable as the third talent at 11th level
•	Slippery Mind as the fourth talent 15th level
•	Elusive as the fifth talent at 18th level

Rogue Class
Level	Proficiency	Sneak Attack	Talents		Features
1st	+2		1d6		0		Expertise, Sneak Attack, Thieves’ Cant
2nd	+2		1d6		1		-
3rd	+2		2d6		1		Rogue Archetype
4th	+2		2d6		1 		Ability Score Improvement
5th	+3		3d6		2		-
6th	+3		3d6		2		Expertise 
7th	+3		4d6		3		-
8th	+3		4d6		3		Ability Score Improvement
9th	+4		5d6		3		Rogue Archetype feature
10th	+4		5d6		3		Ability Score Improvement
11th	+4		6d6		4		-
12th	+4		6d6		4		-
13th	+5		7d6		4		-
14th	+5		7d6		4		-
15th	+5		8d6		5		-
16th	+5		8d6		5		Ability Score Improvement
17th	+6		9d6		5		Rogue Archetype feature
18th	+6		9d6		6		-
19th	+6		10d6		6		Ability Score Improvement
20th	+6		10d6		6		Stroke of Luck

Expertise
At 1st level, choose two of your skill proficiencies, or one of your skill proficiencies and your proficiency with thieves’ tools. Your proficiency bonus is doubled for any ability check you make that uses either of the chosen proficiencies.
At 6th level, you can choose two more of your proficiencies (in skills or with thieves’ tools) to gain this benefit.

Sneak Attack
Beginning at 1st level, you know how to strike subtly and exploit a foe’s distraction. Once per turn, you can deal an extra 1d6 damage to one creature you hit with an attack if you have advantage on the attack roll. The attack must use a finesse or a ranged weapon. You don’t need advantage on the attack roll if another enemy of the target is within 5 feet of it, that enemy isn’t incapacitated, and you don’t have disadvantage on the attack roll. 
The amount of the extra damage increases as you gain levels in this class, as shown in the Sneak Attack column of the Rogue table.

Thieves’ Cant
During your rogue training you learned thieves’ cant, a secret mix of dialect, jargon, and code that allows you to hide messages in seemingly normal conversation. Only another creature that knows thieves’ cant understands such messages. It takes four times longer to convey such a message than it does to speak the same idea plainly. In addition, you understand a set of secret signs and symbols used to convey short, simple messages, such as whether an area is dangerous or the territory of a thieves’ guild, whether loot is nearby, or whether the people in an area are easy marks or will provide a safe house for thieves on the run. 

Rogue Talent 
Starting at 2nd level, you may gain one rogue talent, abilities that represent your ability to function under pressure or perform specialized tasks, either by quick thinking, good use of skill, special aptitude towards magic, or by lightning-fast reflexes. 
Whenever you qualify for another talent (as detailed in the talent column), you can choose another talent or gain another use of an existing talent. All abilities have DCs of 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Strength or Agility modifier (your choice) if they allow a saving throw.
You may also choose to gain a talent from outside this class’s list so long as you qualify for it. 

Roguish Archetype
At 3rd level, you choose an archetype that you emulate in the exercise of your rogue abilities: Assassination, which focuses on capturing the opponent unawares a quickly dispatching of them, Outlaw, which focuses on dueling and swashbuckling, and Subtlety, which attunes one’s self with shadows so much that they begin to aid him. All are detailed at the end of the class description. Your archetype choice grants you features at 3rd level and then again at 9th, 13th, and 17th level.

Ability Score Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 10th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature.

Blindsense
Starting at 14th level, if you are able to hear, you are aware of the location of any hidden or invisible creature within 10 feet of you.

Stroke of Luck
At 20th level, you have an uncanny knack for succeeding when you need to. If your attack misses a target within range, you can turn the miss into a hit. Alternatively, if you fail an ability check, you can treat the d20 roll as a 20.
Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a short or long rest.

Rogue Talents
•	Agile Leap (requires proficiency of +3 or higher). You may use a bonus action to leap, moving at half your total speed. This movement does not provoke reactions. If you have the ability to glide, hover, or fly (via spell, gadget, or ability), you may choose to use this ability in mid-air (effectively changing your trajectory as a double-jump). This jump also counts as a dash for the purposes of other abilities. 
You are treated as if you always benefit from the jump spell. 
•	Cunning Action. Your quick thinking and agility allow you to move and act quickly. You can take a bonus action on each of your turns in combat to use the following action: Dash, Disengage, or Hide. Only rogues may take this talent.
•	Cloak of Shadows. You may dispel one active spell effect on you as a reaction. If the spell’s level is less than half your character level, you automatically succeed. If the spell’s level is higher, you must succeed on an Intelligence or Charisma saving throw (DC 10 + spell level) to dispel it. After being used a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus, this cannot be used again until after a short rest. 
•	Elusive (requires proficiency +6 or higher). You are so evasive that attackers rarely gain the upper hand against you. No attack roll has advantage against you while you aren’t incapacitated. Only rogues may take this talent.
•	Evasion (requires proficiency of +3 or higher). You can nimbly dodge out of the way of certain area effects, such as a dragon’s fiery breath or an ice storm spell. When you are subjected to an effect that allows you to make an Agility saving throw to take half damage, you instead take no damage if you succeed on the saving throw, and only half damage if you fail. Only rogues and monks may take this talent.
•	Fading Shadow (requires Subtlety specialization or the Cloak of Shadows talent). You may cast the blink step spell. After being used, this cannot be used again until after a short rest.
This talent can be taken multiple times, each time adding another use of this ability before a short rest. If your proficiency bonus is +4 or higher, this acts as the dimension door spell instead.
•	Fan of Knives. Whenever you use an action to attack with a light throwing weapon (such as daggers, darts, light hammers, handaxes, or javelins), you may throw another of the same type as part of the same attack action. You may still use two-weapon fighting to throw a third weapon as a bonus action. This stacks with the Extra Attack feature, if you possess it (adding one thrown attack with the first action for each extra attack). 
You may instead spend your action and bonus action to release the same number of weapons as a 20 foot sphere (all around you), a 15 foot cone (in a quarter-circle), or a line 30 feet long, 5 feet wide in any direction you choose. This requires the three thrown weapons, and deals damage as if they all hit, with an Agility saving throw to half damage. If you have the Sneak Attack feature, you may add one additional point of damage per sneak attack dice to the total damage, but only if the target qualifies for a sneak attack. This is an area effect. 
•	Flash Bomber (requires proficiency of +3 or higher). You may use a bonus action or reaction to activate or make use of the Use Object action for alchemical items or explosives. This may be used at a number of times equal to your Intelligence modifier before a short rest. 
•	Insightful Fighting. You gain the ability to decipher an opponent's tactics and develop a counter to them. As a bonus action, you can make a Spirit (Insight) check against a creature you can see that isn’t incapacitated, contested by the target’s Charisma (Deception) check. If you succeed, you can use your Sneak Attack against that target even if you don’t have advantage on the attack roll, but not if you have disadvantage, so long as you spend your bonus action to maintain this effect. This benefit lasts for 1 minute or until you successfully use this feature against a different target. Only rogues may take this talent.
•	Insightful Manipulator (requires proficiency of +4 or higher). If you spend at least 1 minute observing or interacting with another creature outside combat, you can learn certain information about its capabilities compared to your own. The DM tells you if the creature is your equal, superior, or inferior in regard to two of the following characteristics of your choice:
o	Intelligence, Spirit, or Charisma scores
o	Class levels (if any)
At the DM’s option, you might also realize you know a piece of the creature’s history or one of its personality traits, if it has any. 
•	Master of Intrigue. You gain proficiency with the disguise and forgery kits, and one gaming set of your choice. You also learn two languages of your choice.
Additionally, you can unerringly mimic the speech patterns and accent of a creature that you hear speak for at least 1 minute, enabling you to pass yourself off as a native speaker of a particular land, provided that you know the language.
•	Master of Tactics. You can use the Help action as a bonus action. Additionally, when you use the Help action to aid an ally in attacking a creature, the target of that attack can be within 30 feet of you, rather than within 5 feet of you, if the target can see or hear you.
•	Misdirection (requires proficiency of +5 or higher). You can sometimes cause another creature to suffer an attack meant for you. When you are targeted by an attack while a creature within 5 feet of you is granting you cover against that attack, you can use your reaction to have the attack target that creature instead of you.
•	Mutilate Strike. Whenever you can attack as a bonus action with an off-hand weapon, you may instead add the off-hand damage to your main attack action, retaining your bonus action. Your bonus action cannot be used to attack the same round after using this strike. Once used, this talent cannot be used again for three rounds. 
•	Reliable Talent (requires proficiency of +3 or higher). Whenever you make an ability check that lets you add your proficiency bonus, you can treat a d20 roll of 9 or lower as a 10. Only rogues may take this talent.
•	Dire Strike. You strike at a vulnerable place in the target's body when you may deal your sneak attack damage. Instead of dealing extra sneak attack damage, you may impose a condition on the target on a failed Stamina saving throw. The weapon damage type determines the condition, chosen from the below. 
o	Blinded (any). The target is blinded for until the end of their turn in the next round. 
o	Kidney Shot (piercing or bludgeoning, requires proficiency of +3 or above). The target is stunned until the end of their turn in the next round. 
o	Rupture (slashing or piercing). The target begins to bleed for one minute. At the beginning of every round, it loses a number of hit points equal to your Agility modifier due to blood loss. Furthermore, unless they take precautions, they leave a trail of blood behind them. 
The creature can attempt another Stamina saving throw at the beginning of every round to end this effect. This effect is also ended if the target regains a number of hit points equal to or greater than the bleed damage. Alternatively, the wounded creature, or a creature within 5 feet of it, can use an action to make a DC 15 Spirit (Medicine) check, ending the effect of such wounds on it on a success. Creatures that do have blood (or do not require it to survive) cannot be harmed by bleeding. 
o	Sap (bludgeoning). The creature is charmed for one minute and looks visibly dazed and flat-footed. While charmed by this effect, the creature is incapacitated and has a speed of 0. The effect ends for an affected creature if it takes any damage or if someone else uses an action to shake the creature out of its stupor. The creature can attempt another Stamina saving throw once every round to end this effect. Once a creature is affected by this ability, it is immune to it until it performs a short rest.
For each saving throw attempt the target makes against a dire strike ability, they gain a cumulative +1 to their saving throws against this ability. This applies to saving throws rolled every round as well as new applications of effects that were already chosen. The bonus to saving throws remains for up to 24 hours. If the rupture strike, for example, has a DC of 14 the first round, the DC decreases to 13 the second round, and 12 the third round. If choosing kidney shot, the DC decreases the more the ability is applied. 
•	Slippery Mind (requires proficiency of +4 or higher). You have acquired greater mental strength. You gain proficiency in Spirit saving throws. Only rogues and monks may take this talent. Monks further enhance this talent, gaining proficiency in all saving throws instead. 
•	Swift Slash. Whenever you use the Dash action, you may make one free melee attack with a finesse weapon, made at any point during movement. This attack is treated as a normal melee attack for all purposes, but is resolved with a -2 penalty to hit. 
If you reduce a creature to 0 hit points as part of this attack, you benefit from the blur spell until the beginning of your turn in the next round. You can use this talent only once per round, even if you had an ability that allowed multiple Dash actions in one round (such as Cunning Action or Haste). 
•	Tricks of the Trade. You may cast the compelled duel spell, but instead of drawing the target to you, you can direct them to a third creature within 30 feet of both of you. The target of the compelled duel has advantage to the saving throw unless the third creature is one of your allies or is neutral to both of you. After being used, this cannot be used again until after a short rest. This effect ends if you attack the target, if the third creature does not defend itself, or if you end your turn more than 30 feet away from the target.
This talent can be taken multiple times, each time adding another use of this ability before a short rest.
•	Uncanny Dodge (requires proficiency of +3 or higher). When an attacker that you can see hits you with an attack, you can use your reaction to halve the attack’s damage against you. Only rogues and monks can take this talent. 
•	Unerring Eye (requires proficiency of +5 or higher). Your senses are almost impossible to foil. As an action, you sense the presence of illusions, creatures not in their original form (such as shapechangers), and other magic designed to deceive the senses within 30 feet of you, provided you aren’t blinded or deafened. You sense that an effect is attempting to trick you, but you gain no insight into what is hidden or into its true nature. This ability can be used a number of times equal to your Spirit modifier before replenishing after a long rest.

Rogue Archetypes
Rogues can choose from the below archetypes.

Assassination
You are deadly master of poisons, who can dispatch various victims with vicious dagger strikes and amazing talents. Assassins are usually independent agents who perform contracts with various organizations to further their own goals. 

Assassinate. Starting at 3rd level, you are at your deadliest when you get the drop on your enemies. You have advantage on attack rolls against any creature that hasn’t taken a turn in the combat yet. In addition, any hit you score against a creature that is surprised is a critical hit. 
Also, if you don’t already have proficiency with a poisoner’s kit, you gain proficiency in it, and you gain advantage to saving throws against your own poisons. 

Disrupting Strike [Strike]. Also starting at 3rd level, you gain experience in fighting casters. Whenever you deal sneak attack damage with a melee weapon, you may give up a portion of the damage to disrupt the target for one round per 1d6 of sneak attack given up. 
While disrupted, a target of this ability must make a Stamina check every time they cast a spell, with a DC equal to half the melee damage you dealt to them with the sneak attack. On a failed check, the caster’s spell is lost, and the resources are expended without benefit.

Dispatch. Starting at 9th level, whenever attacking a target that is below half hit points, your sneak attack dice improves from 1d6 to d10. 

Expert Poisoner. Starting at 13th level, the Poisoned condition if delivered by you also inflicts disadvantage on one saving throw type you choose for the duration of the condition. You also gather triple the normal amount of crafting materials for poisons when harvesting (such as from raw materials or from creatures). 

Vendetta. Starting at 17th level, you may mark one target within 100 feet with an action, and have advantage to all Perception checks to perceive them, as well as advantage to the first attack of every turn against them. The benefits remain for one minute, and may be used once before a short rest.

Outlaw
You are a swashbuckler, duelists, or combatant who uses agility and guile to stand toe-to-toe with opponents. Outlaw rogues are usually pirates and highwaymen. 

Riposte. Starting at 3rd level, you may deflect an incoming attack by using a reaction, thereby adding your Proficiency bonus to your AC. If your AC is then high enough to make the enemy miss after it would have been a success, you can make an attack of opportunity against the enemy. 
Outlaw rogues also gain proficiency with firearms and explosives. 

Revealing Strike [Strike]. Also at 3rd level, a target struck with this ability must make an Agility saving throw opposed by your own. If you succeed, the target loses all increases to AC from a single type against all targets for until the end of your next round. This may be used to nullify armor bonuses, insight bonuses, or Agility bonuses, but not all three. 
A creature that suffers the effects of Revealing Strike cannot be targeted again for 24 hours. This is a strike effect that costs a bonus action. 

Quick Combatant. Beginning at 9th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn. 
If you roll a successful attack roll with one of these attacks, you may forgo dealing damage with that attack to give yourself advantage on the next attack you make. This may only be done with melee attacks. 

Disabling Strike [Strike]. Starting at 13th level, your keen eye and calculating mind makes your Sneak Attacks even more potent. Whenever you succeed on an attack that deals Sneak Attack damage, you may elect to not deal sneak attack damage, and force your target to make an Agility saving throw opposed by your own. If the target fails the saving throw, it gains one of the following conditions at your choice. 
•	Slowed by 1/2 their normal movement rate for until the end of its turn in the next round.
•	Blinded for until the end of its turn in the next round.
•	Stunned for until the end of its turn in the next round.
This is a strike effect that costs a bonus action. A creature cannot suffer more than once against your Disabling Strike in 24 hours. If you have the dire strike ability, you can deal half your sneak attack damage when applying a dire strike. 

Killing Spree. Starting at 17th level, you tap into your reserves of speed, going into a killing spree. While you are in this state, you may double your movement and gain advantage on your first attack at the beginning of every round. Your movement doesn't provoke opportunity attacks. This state remains for 1 minute, or until you spend one of your rounds without making an attack roll or if you are not targeted with an attack roll. This may be used once per short rest. 

Subtlety 
Your affinity with shadows reached beyond the mundane, tapping into shadowy arcane powers. Subtlety rogues are often spies who sell their secrets to the highest bidder. 

Shadow Spellcasting
Drawing on mysterious shadow-magics, you can cast spells to shape that essence to your will. You cast spells drawn from the Mage spell list, and are restricted to spells from the Conjuration, Evocation, Enchantment, and Illusion schools. You may also scribe spells in Thieves’ Cant. You also gain a spellbook as a 1st-level mage. 
You gain bonus spells on your 8th, 14th, and 20th level. These spells can be of any schools.

Cantrips
At 1st level, you know a number of cantrips equal to your proficiency bonus.
One of your cantrips must be the mage hand cantrip. 

Preparing and Casting Spells
Each rogue level provides you with 0.5 a caster level in the Mage class (minimum 0). You follow the normal progression to unlock spell levels (see the table under the Mana section).
You prepare the list of Mage spells that are available for you to cast, choosing from the mage spell list. Your spellcasting otherwise follows the same rules as the mage class (with regards to which creatures you can conjure, spellbooks, etc.). Your spellcasting ability is Intelligence. 

Premeditation. Also on 3rd level, you may use 3 rounds (counted as 3 actions) to study an enemy. If you do, you may always apply your sneak attack damage against them (even without advantage or an ally nearby) for one minute, unless the target moves more than their full speed in one round. In addition, any hit you score against a creature that is surprised is a critical hit. 

Vanish. Starting at 9th level, you may grant yourself invisibility as a reaction. This invisibility remains until the end of your next turn. This may be used once per point of Intelligence modifier, and replenishes after a short rest. 

Shadow Dance. Starting at 13th level, you may initiate a shadow dance by moving more than 10 feet. While in this stance, you grant yourself concealment as per the blur spell. Also while in the stance, creatures affected or distracted by your mage spells (such as a summoned monster or an image illusion, but not the distracted condition) grant you advantage to your first attack at any round. This may be used once per short rest, and remains so long as you continue moving. 

Backstab. Starting at 17th level, when you target any creature below half hit points with a sneak attack, you may deal double sneak attack damage. A target subjected to this effect once cannot be subjected to it again for 24 hours. 

Shaman (SHM)
A tauren standing atop a cliff calmly raises his hand, leaning on a giant halberd, sprinkling reagents upon the grasslands below. The golden dust is carried on a spirit of the wind. A giant totem bound to his back trembles in approval.

A red-bearded dwarf stands on shaking ground, unmoved, as the earth cracks before him, spewing the beginnings of lava. As his comrades collapse, he points at it with commanding presence, shouting in a primordial tongue that speaks to the very earth. The beginnings of a chaotic volcanic eruption slow, before the primal powers of the earth and fire retreat, calmed, back into the earth. 

Cleaving through fiendish foes with a bloodied axe in one hand and lightning-enhanced attack claws in the other, the orc shouts a war cry to rally his allies. Bearing a wolf-pelt over his shoulders, he raises an olive-skinned arm to the skies, summoning a bolt of lightning from the stormy clouds before, which he then sends at a gathering of demons with a resounding clap of thunder.

Shaman are mortal mediators between the very elements themselves. Often spiritual guides of their communities, these powerful practitioners commune with the ancestors and seek to balance the raging elemental forces, and can call upon them in battle to scorch and blast their enemies, or to strengthen and heal their allies. Shaman can enhance their weapons with elemental effects, smite enemies with lightning strikes and bursts of lava, and summon powerful elementals to their aid.

SPIRITUAL POWERS
Shaman are spiritual guides and practitioners, not of the divine, but of the very elements. Unlike some other mystics, shaman commune with forces that are not strictly benevolent. The elements are chaotic, and left to their own devices, they rage against one another in unending primal fury. It is the call of the shaman to bring balance to this chaos. Acting as moderators among earth, fire, water, and air, shaman summon totems that focus the elements to support the shaman’s allies or punish those who threaten them.
Shaman are spiritual visionaries of tribes and clans. These gifted warriors can see into the world of spirits and communicate with creatures invisible to the eyes of normal beings. They are beset by visions of the future and use their sight to guide their people through troubled times. Although shaman may seem wise and serene at first, they are formidable foes; when angered, their wrath is as fierce as those who have a connection to divines or to nature.
During combat, shaman place damaging and controlling totems on the ground to maximize their effectiveness while hindering their enemies. Shaman are versatile enough to battle foes up close or at range, but wise shamans choose their avenue of attack based on their enemies' strengths and weaknesses.

GIFT OF THE ELEMENTS
Commanding chaotic and conflicting elements, a shaman is a force that hears the world tremble and directs its wrath. Communicating with spirits of flame, winds, and stone, shamans channel the power of the storm, earth, and fire to their will. A shaman’s holy symbol is a small ancestral relic or totem of bone, wood, or iron that can be carried in one’s hand. 
The elements are chaotic, however, and left to their own devices, they rage against one another in unending primal fury. It is the call of the shaman to bring balance to this chaos, acting as moderators among earth, fire, water, and air. The spirit of life is a hidden and elusive one, but shamans often channel healing energies through water until they are able and proficient enough to negotiate bringing the dead to life via invoking life spirits.
As shamans mediate between elemental spirits, it is unsurprising that such aptitude eventually translates to connecting with other kinds of spirits as well, including that of incorporeal undead (such as banshees or ghosts) or the shaman’s own ancestors. 
Besides the great shamanistic traditions of the orcs, Wildhammer dwarves are familiar with shamanism in its ancestral worship form, and Tauren are most well-versed with the spirits of earth and sky, both having traditions ancient to modern Azeroth. 

CREATING A SHAMAN
When you create your shaman the most important question to ask is how you became attuned to the spirits. Was it a natural event such as being born during a mystical meteor shower? Did terrible dreams plague you as a child and it wasn’t until you had matured that you realized the truth of your abilities?
How does your character perceive their abilities? Maybe you view them as a duty to the souls around you, an endless task to lend aid to the spirits and help them into the afterlife? Or even perhaps you view the spirits as tools to advance your own plans, choosing to exploit the spirits you see rather than helping them?

QUICK BUILD
You can make a shaman quickly by following these suggestions. First, Spirit should be your highest ability score, followed by Strength or Stamina. Second, choose the hermit background. Third, choose the create bonfire, invoke elements, and thunderclap cantrips, along with the following 1st-level spells for your master totem: absorb elements, conjure (elementals), elemental shock, fog cloud, healing ward, and lightning orbs.

CLASS FEATURES
As a shaman, you gain the following class features.

HIT POINTS
Hit Dice: 1d8 per shaman level
Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Stamina modifier
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Stamina modifier per shaman level after 1st

PROFICIENCIES 
Armor: Light armor, medium armor, shields
Weapons: All simple weapons, bludgeons, axes, daggers, and quarterstaffs
Tools: Herbalism kit
Saving Throws: Spirit, Charisma
Skills: Choose two from History, Insight, Medicine, Persuasion, and Religion

EQUIPMENT
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
•	(a) a battle axe or (b) a warhammer
•	(a) leather armor, or (b) chain shirt 
•	(a) 2 Handaxes or (b) a shield
•	(a) a priest’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack
•	A shamanistic focus (minor totem)

Shaman Class 
Level	Proficiency	Features					Caster level (Spell level)
1st	+2		Kalimag, Spellcasting, Shamanistic Art		1 (1st)
2nd	+2		Channel Elements (1/rest), Art Feature, 		2 (1st)
Mana Surge
3rd	+2		-						3 (2nd)
4th	+2		Ability Score Improvement			4 (2nd)
5th	+3		Release Elemental (CR 1/2)			5 (3rd)
6th	+3		Channel Elements (2/rest), Art Feature		6 (3rd)
7th	+3		-						7 (4th)
8th	+3		Ability Score Improvement, Release		8 (4th)
Elemental (CR 1), Art Feature
9th	+4		-						9 (5th)
10th	+4		Elemental Intervention				10 (5th)
11th	+4		Release Elemental (CR 2)			11 (6th)
12th	+4		Ability Score Improvement			12 (6th)
13th	+5		-						13 (7th)
14th	+5		Release Elemental (CR 3)			14 (7th)
15th	+5		-						15 (8th)
16th	+5		Ability Score Improvement			16 (8th)
17th	+6		Release Elemental (CR 4), Art Feature		17 (9th)
18th	+6		Channel Elements (3/rest)			18 (9th)
19th	+6		Ability Score Improvement			19 (9th)
20th	+6		Elemental Intervention Improvement		20 (9th)

Kalimag
You know Kalimag, the language of elementals and wind, earth, fire, and water spirits. You can speak the language and use it to leave hidden messages. You and others who know this language automatically spot such a message. If you can speak Kalimag, you can communicate with all other shamans and elementals, even if you don’t otherwise share a language.

Spellcasting
By 1st level, you have learned to draw on raw elemental might through meditation and communication with the elements. 

Cantrips
At 1st level, you know a number of cantrips equal to your proficiency bonus.

Conjuring and Binding 
A shaman can conjure and bind aberrations, elementals, fiends, oozes, and undead, as well spirit creatures (creatures with the spirit template). 

Preparing and Casting Spells
Each shaman level provides you with 1 caster level in the shaman class. You follow the normal progression to unlock spell levels (see the table under the Mana section).
You prepare the list of shaman spells that are available for you to cast, choosing from the shaman spell list. 
You can also change your list of prepared spells by consulting your totem (treat as a spellbook) after a long rest. Preparing a new list of shaman spells requires time spent in study: at least 1 minute per spell level for each spell on your list.

Spellcasting Ability
Spirit is your spellcasting ability for your shaman spells, since you learn your shaman spells through primal contact with the elemental forces. 
You use your Spirit whenever a spell refers to your spellcasting ability. In addition, you use your Spirit modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a shaman spell you cast and when making an attack roll with one.
Spell save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Spirit modifier
Spell attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Spirit modifier

Spellbook – Master Totem
At 1st level, your totem contains six 1st-level shaman spells of your choice. When you level up, you gain 2 additional shaman spells of your choice. You may also acquire new spells by research, tutelage, or from the spellbooks and scrolls of spellcasters who have spells you can cast. 
Your totem is effectively your spellbook, and you may add spells by meditating with it and burning incense and rare herbs. This totem is usually also known as your spell totem. 

Spellcasting Focus
You can use your shamanistic symbol as a spellcasting focus for your shaman spells. These are typically totems, tufts of wolf hair, or a carving of your spiritual animal. 

Shamanistic Art
Choose one shamanistic art or focus related to how you view the elements and how they have received you, such as Elemental to focus on bringing the elements’ wrath down, enhancement to strengthen yourself through the elements, or restoration, in which the elements are in balance. 
Each art is detailed at the end of the class description. 

Your choice grants you art spells and other features when you choose it at 1st level. It also grants you additional ways to use Channel Elements when you gain that feature at 2nd level, and additional benefits at 6th, 8th, and 17th levels.

Art Spells
Each art has a list of spells—its art spells—that you gain at the shaman levels noted in the art description. Once you gain an art spell, you always have it prepared, and it doesn’t count against the number of spells you can prepare each day. If you have an art spell that doesn’t appear on the priest spell list, the spell is nonetheless a shaman spell for you.

Channel Elements
At 2nd level, you gain the ability to channel elemental energy directly, using that energy to fuel magical effects. You start with two such effects: Turn Elementals and an effect determined by your art. Some arts grant you additional effects as you advance in levels, as noted in the art description. When you use your Channel Elements, you choose which effect to create. You must then finish a short or long rest to use your Channel Elements again. 
Some Channel Elements effects require saving throws. When you use such an effect from this class, the DC equals your shaman spell save DC. Beginning at 6th level, you can use your Channel Elements twice between rests, and beginning at 18th level you can use it three times between rests. When you finish a short or long rest, you regain your expended uses.

Channel Elements: Turn Elementals
As an action, you present your shamanistic symbol and speak a prayer dismissing and quelling elementals. Each elemental that can see or hear you within 30 feet of you must make a Spirit saving throw. If the creature fails its saving throw, it is turned for 1 minute or until it takes any damage. 
A turned creature must spend its turns trying to move as far away from you as it can, and it can’t willingly move to a space within 30 feet of you. It also can’t take reactions. For its action, it can use only the Dash action or try to escape from an effect that prevents it from moving. If there’s nowhere to move, the creature can use the Dodge action.
While it is turned, you may also opt to calm the elemental, rendering it passive and not hostile for one minute. If treated fairly and listened to, the elemental might reveal why it is angered, and may demand from the shaman to address a problem that is wracking the elementals in the region (or beyond). 

Mana Surge
Starting at 2nd level, you may rapidly recover your mana by calling on the primal elements for aid. You can use your action and bonus action on your turn to regain mana as if completed a short rest (or rested for one hour). 
You can use this feature up to one time per every two points of proficiency bonus. You regain expended uses when you finish a long rest. Alternatively, if you use this during a short rest, you are treated as if you rested for two hours. 

Ability Score Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature.

Release Elemental
Starting at 5th level, when an elemental fails its saving throw against your Turn Elemental feature, you may subject the creature to a dispel (as the dispel magic spell), release it from its bindings (if bound by the bind or essence seal spells), return it to its realm of origin (as the banishment spell), or destroy it outright if its challenge rating is at or below a certain threshold, as shown in the Release Elemental table. This ability only functions when you declare your intention to use it.

Shaman Level	Releases Elemental of CR
5th		1/2 or lower
8th		1 or lower
11th		2 or lower
14th		3 or lower
17th		4 or lower

If targeting an elemental whose essence is captured and is being used to fuel a device with an elemental engine, you can cause it to suffer from the malfunctioned condition with a successful spell attack against the wielder of the device. If the device already is malfunctioned, a successful spell attack releases the elemental instead, which appears at any point between you and the device (you can choose the point). Such elementals usually serve the shaman for 1 day or until they can return the favor. 
Destroying elementals is a secret art known to shamans, and is typically only used against elementals that are corrupted by fel energies, as elementals are usually receptive to shamans who turn them (see above). 

Elemental Intervention
Beginning at 10th level, you can call on the elements of Azeroth to intervene on your behalf when your need is great. Imploring the elements’ aid requires you to use your action. Describe the assistance you seek, and roll a percentile dice. If you roll a number equal to or lower than your shaman level, the elements intervene. The DM chooses the nature of the intervention; the effect of any shaman spell or art spell would be appropriate. This ability is treated as divine intervention in all respects. 
If the elements intervene, you can’t use this feature again for 7 days. Otherwise, you can use it again after you finish a long rest. At 20th level, your call for intervention succeeds automatically, no roll required.

Shamanistic Arts
An Azerothian shaman may choose one of the three following shamanistic arts. 

Elemental
Your ability to command the elements at long ranges, and influence and aid their allies at equal distance is renowned and respected. Elementalists make up most adventuring shamans. 

Elemental Art Spells
Level	Spells
1st	Fog cloud, elemental shock
3rd	Animal messenger (or animal spirit), gust of wind
5th	Call lightning, sending
7th	Control water, ice storm
9th	Maelstrom, teleport circle (to areas of elemental power)

Elemental Mastery. Starting at 1st level, you may change any elemental damage type dealt by your shaman spells to another type. This requires a bonus action. 

Acclimation. Also at 1st level, you are also immune to the hostile effects of weather, and can predict it accurately 24 hours in advance 50% of the time with an action. You can also sense any weather-changing spells when they are being cast within 5 miles of your location, and can roughly identify whether the caster is a friend or foe to the elements or shamans.
Furthermore, the elements also whisper to you of any threats to them (as if Calling, see Chapter 10), such as extensive drilling efforts, an upcoming wildfire in a dry area, or a coming storm in around 24 hours before they take place. 

Channel Elements: Wrath. At 2nd level, you can spend a Channel Elements use to wield the power of the elements with unchecked ferocity. When you roll for any type of elemental damage, you can use a Channel Elements attempt to deal maximum damage instead. 

Elemental Mixing. Starting at 6th level, when you roll elemental damage from a shaman spell of spell level 1 1st or higher, you can apply one of the following effects.
•	Storm Toss. The target takes disadvantage to attack rolls.
•	Earth Slide. The target is pushed 10 feet in any direction you choose.
•	Fire Sear. The target is scorched for one round.
•	Frost Snap. The target is chilled for one round.
These effects stack with others, whenever possible (such as by the elemental shock spell). For example, an Elemental Shock that deals Lightning (Lightning Shock) normally imposes the Storm Toss effect. You can also add the Earth Slide effect to push the target as well. 

Bonded Elemental. Starting at 8th level, you may conjure an elemental and render its duration permanent. If the elemental dies, you can perform the ritual again to summon another. This elemental does not require concentration to maintain and does not count against the normal limit for the Bind spell, with a maximum spell level rendered permanent equal to one-half the maximum spell level of the elemental you can bond. 

Elemental Storm. When you reach level 17, you gain the ability to summon a fully-realized thunderstorm, snowstorm, or firestorm at your location. The earth is blanketed by a 5-mile radius centered on you for one hour. This otherwise acts as control weather, and takes 10 minutes to cast as normal. However, so long as the elemental storm is active, you may also use an action to cause a 10-foot wide cylinder of elemental wrath that deals 10d6 damage (thunder, lighting, cold, or fire, depending on the storm type). The range of this ability is as far as you can see within the radius, and the affected creatures are entitled an Agility saving throw to half damage. 
Whenever you call the elemental cylinder, the dice damage is reduced by 2d6. When they reach 0d6, the storm ends prematurely (even if maintaining concentration), as the elemental spirits become calmer. Once used, this ability cannot be used again until after a long rest. 

Enhancement
Your magic is woven to your combat style, empowering your ability harm their enemies in melee combat. Enhancement shamans usually use two weapons. 

Enhancement Art Spells
Level	Spell
1st	Elemental tongue, shield
3rd	Conjure*, earth shield
5th	Bloodlust, spirit infusion
7th	Death ward, freedom of movement (or grace of air)
9th	Windfury tongue, true seeing
* Spirit dire wolf

Bonus Proficiencies. At 1st level, you gain proficiency with martial weapons. Also, when you engage in two-weapon fighting, you can add your ability modifier to the damage of the second attack. 

Elemental Command. Also at 1st level, you gain increased proficiency and command over the elements. You may perform any of the following abilities a number of times equal to your Spirit modifier. All such uses of elemental command are restored after a short rest. 
•	Command the Storm. When a creature within 5 feet of you that you can see hits you with an attack, you can use your reaction to cause the creature to make an Agility saving throw. The creature takes 2d6 lightning or thunder damage (your choice) on a failed saving throw, and half as much damage on a successful one. If they took at least 5 points of damage, they are pushed 5 feet away. The damage increases by 1 dice for every two spell levels you can access above 1st level (up to 6d6).
•	Command the Earth. You may send a tremor through the earth as a bonus action as an elemental command, unbalancing your enemies. In a 30-foot-sphere centered on you, you may send a shockwave, dealing 2d6 + your Spirit modifier in bludgeoning damage (or your weapon damage, whichever is higher), with an Agility saving throw to half damage. You may instead shape this as a 15-foot-long cone, or a 30-foot-long line. If you also have the tremor warrior talent, you may expend a use of tremor. If you elect to do so, creatures who fail the Agility saving throw are also knocked prone. The damage increases by 1 dice for every two spell levels you can access above 1st level (up to 6d6).
•	Command the Flame. You may cast fire bolt as a bonus action or as a reaction as a use of elemental command. 
Also, choose one weapon you are proficient in and enhance it with a shard of your essence. So long as you wield the weapon, it counts as a spellcasting focus, and you may use it to perform somatic components of your shaman spells. You can only have one weapon enhanced this way. 

Channel Elements: Elementalist Combat. At 2nd level, you can spend a Channel Elements use to invoke a blessing from the elementals. This blessing boosts your combat capabilities beyond those even of experienced warriors for 1 minute. While this blessing is active, your strike and shot effects do not cost a bonus action to apply, so long as they are from the shaman class or from shaman spells. Furthermore, if you successfully affect the target with two attacks, you may push the creature up to 10 feet away (plus an additional 10 feet for each extra attack), so long as it is not more than one size category larger you. If the strike would normally push the enemy, the forced movement does not stack. 
The blessing ends early if you are knocked unconscious, or if their turn ends without being attacked or attacking a hostile creature, or if not casting a non-cantrip shaman spell. 

Flurry. Starting at 6th level, when you take an action to attack, you can attack twice instead of once. 

Spirit Wolves. Starting at 8th level, you can summon two dire wolves with the spirit template as an action, which take their turns immediately after yours. The wolves dissipate after 1 minute, and do not require concentration. So long as the wolves are within 10 feet of you, your movement speed increases to match their own. 
After using this feature, you must finish a short rest before you can use it again. The DM has the wolves’ statistics, and applies the spirit template appropriately. 

Greater Investitures. Starting at 17th level, you can may cast one of the four ‘Investiture’ spells (Investiture of Flame, Investiture of Wind, etc.) with a use of Elemental Command. 
While under the effects of one of the spells, whenever you cast the Elemental Shock spell that deals the same damage type as described in the investiture (if any), the spell deals double damage (as if a critical hit). This can stack with a critical hit (up to triple damage). 

Restoration
You focuses on magic that heals and divines the future—your totems, as a consequence, are stronger than that of other paths. Restoration shamans are often thought of as more spiritual than others, and are known as witch-shamans or spirit-walkers.

Restoration Art Spells
Level	Spell
1st	Healing ward, riptide
3rd	Ancestral guardians, totemic recall
5th	Healing stream, revivify (or ancestral sight)
7th	Death ward, spirit link totem
9th	Healing stream totem, tranquility (or healing rain)

Ancestral Blessing. At 1st level, whenever you heal a creature, you add your Spirit modifier to the total amount of healing given. This applies once per spell. 

Elusive Totems. Also starting at 1st level, you may move your totems up to half your own speed as a reaction, not as a bonus action. This cannot interrupt an attack, but gives the totem a bonus to AC equal to your Spirit modifier versus an attack you react to. 
You also increase their hit points by your level (to a total of three times your level). Totems also gain the benefit of the Evasion rogue ability when using your Agility saving throw bonus. 

Channel Elements: Life-Link. Starting at 2nd level, you may channel the elements and spend an action to cast effects spirit link spell (even if you normally cannot cast it). Furthermore, whenever a creature is healed, the healing is also distributed as well. You may add this effect to as an existing spirit link spell as well, so long as you were the one who cast it. 

Cleanse Spirit. Starting at 6th level, you may use an action to cast the dispel magic spell (spell level equal to the highest spell level you can access) to any creature within 30 feet, but not on objects, areas, or creatures without spirits (such as Undead or Constructs). This may be used a number of times equal to your Spirit modifier (minimum 1). You may spend three uses to cast the remove curse instead with the same limitations. All expended uses are replenished at a long rest. To unwilling targets, this must be a ranged spell attack. 
Also, whenever you dispel any number of magical effects, you may choose to reduce the target’s speed by 10 feet for until the beginning of their turn in the next round. 

Deep Healing. Starting at 8th level, your healing spells heal much more if the target is already wounded. If the hit points of a Shaman healing spell target has less than 50% of their maximum hit points, the benefits of your Ancestral Blessing ability is doubled (double your Spirit modifier in extra hit points). If the target is at 0 hit points and is unstable, the benefits triple. 

Totem Mastery. Starting at 17th level, you may activate two totems with the same reaction. You may also include totems in the spirit link spell or effect, despite them being objects and not creatures. Also, whenever one of your totems is attacked (and not necessarily hit), it can move 10 feet in any direction. 

Tinker (TNK)
A dwarf holds out his rifle, standing watch over his position atop defensive walls. In the distance, he hears the explosion of a mine. Mentally calculating the distance, he turns to a nearby mortar, adjusting a few settings. He pulls the primer, smirking as the mortar lobs the explosive shell somewhere into the woods behind cover, releasing panicked screams and another blast. 

A large mechanical construct with arms of steel and razor-sharp claws approaches a keep’s shut portcullis. The construct digs its claws under the steel of the gate, and begins pulling it upwards, as a small voice from inside the construct urges its fellows to pass quickly. From the walls, an arrow clangs on the construct’s shoulder, causing the driver of the mecha to turn, lift an arm, and release a rocket barrage against the hapless archer. From within, a gnome squeaks out an apology.

The goblin’s green skin seems almost black from the soot of her explosives as she ducks behind the ruined door frame, evading sling bullets and bolts of frost. She rests her back on the wall for a moment, and unhooks a mechanical wheel from her back. She revs up a rip-tire, packs a few pieces of dynamite into it, and releases it. With a roar, the wheel charges into the open gateway and lets out a resounding blast. The goblin then smirks at the silence, and hearing a groan, she pulls out her flamethrower, and moves in to clean up.

For the tinker, innovation is both the tool and the end. Having the brain and the tools give them the nearly limitless capacity to solve any problem. These engineers are lightly armored, and are proficient with the skills to create a variety of tools and machines to help them achieve their goals. 

CONSUMMATE INNOVATORS
Tinkers among the smartest and most creative of the adventurers setting out to explore and conquer Azeroth. As a creator of incredible inventions from steam saws to siege engines, your devices allow them to overcome nearly any situation — and if you don’t have the device they need, you just might be able to design and create a new one on the spot.
Tinkers are born of necessity—economic or military. Many gnomish and goblin engineers chose to take up the path of the tinker because of its demand in peace and wartime, and to satisfy their creativity. Tinkers tend to carry about packs and pouches full of heavy tools, spare parts and inventions both finished and incomplete. In doing so, they quickly develop the ability to shoulder casually otherwise crushing burdens. Furthermore, the tinker’s ability to put together devices out of random piles of spare parts or whatever wires and gears they happen to be carrying is a valuable asset, allowing a tinker to address problems and improvise even when they would otherwise be stumped.
From developing vehicles such as the zeppelin or the steam engine to reliable weapons and explosives, tinkers are increasingly needed innovators in the changing World of Warcraft.

ADAPTABLE COMBATANTS
Tinkers prefer to spend days, weeks or even months constructing the devices they design. When adventuring, though, tinkers are often forced to throw together a device more quickly or adapt pieces of fallen technology to their purposes. A tinker can arrive onto a battlefield with many tools, ranging from firearms, explosives, strange gadgets, to even personal vehicles and mecha. A tinker always balances what they can bring with what they should bring, as relying on technology that is too young could result in a crisis like the destruction of Gnomregan. They also look forward to repurposing enemy technology, and a tinker’s strength can grow the more developed their opposition is. 
Tinkers have a reputation for being dangerous companions before specializing, born mainly of reckless goblins experimenting with explosives, or using gadgets made and owned by others. However, the true heart of the tinker profession can be found in the steady craftsmanship of the dwarves and the wild-eyed curiosity of the gnomes. 

CREATING A TINKER
When you create a tinker, consider where you learned your craft. Are you self-taught or a student of a well-established guild, university, or master tinker? How has that affected your starting devices and formulae? Another thing to consider is your specialty—many gnomes and draenei prefer to rely on gadgets, while goblins lean towards explosives, and dwarves would swear on a reliable firearm.
Are the components and parts of your devices usually supplied and numbered or scavenged and repurposed from other devices? 
Do you have qualms of repurposing technology (seeing it as a mark of poverty) or revel in it (seeing it as a proof of your power and skill)? Have you ever worked for an engineering society or guild—how have they treated you or used your inventions? 

QUICK BUILD 
You can make a tinker quickly by following these suggestions. First. Intelligence should be your highest ability score. Make Agility your next-highest if you want to excel at using firearms and explosives. Choose Stamina or Strength instead if you plan to emphasize using constructs and mecha. Second, choose the guild artisan background. Third, choose the following starting devices in your engineer’s notebook: boomstick (or auto-crossbow), fog machine (gadget), flamethrower (gadget), and hand grenade (or default rocket, explosive). 

CLASS FEATURES
HIT POINTS
Hit Dice 1d8 per tinker level
Hit Points at 1st Level 8 + your Stamina modifier
Hit Points at Higher Levels 1d8 (or 5) + your Stamina modifier per tinker level after 1st

PROFICIENCIES
Armor: Light armor
Weapons: Simple weapons, hand crossbows, maces, firearms, explosives, and short swords.
Tools: Thieves’ tools and engineer’s tools
Saving Throws: Agility, Intelligence
Skills: Choose four from Acrobatics, Athletics, Insight, Intimidation, Investigation, Perception, Performance, Persuasion, Sleight of Hand, and Stealth.

EQUIPMENT
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
•	(a) A mace or (b) a shortsword
•	(a) 2 common explosives (hand grenades, default rockets, or default mine)
•	(a) A dungeoneer’s pack, or (b) an explorer’s pack
•	Leather armor, engineer’s tools
•	Engineer’s notebook, 250 gp worth of engineering materials (can be spend on character creation), materials enough for four fuel charges of an engine of the tinker’s choice (except alchemical engines)

Tinker Class
Level	Proficiency	Rarity		Features
1st	+2		Common	Engineering, Packrat, Cobble (1/rest)
2nd	+2		Common 	Knack for It, Efficient Engineering
3rd	+2		Common	Tinker Path, Flash Bomber
4th	+2		Common	Ability Score Improvement
5th	+3		Uncommon	Superfunction, Cobble (2/rest)
6th	+3		Uncommon	Path Feature
7th	+3		Uncommon	Coolness under Fire
8th	+3		Uncommon	Ability Score Improvement
9th	+4		Rare		Cobble (3/rest)
10th	+4		Rare		Scavenge, Path feature
11th	+4		Rare		Reliability, Evasion
12th	+4		Rare		Ability Score Improvement
13th	+5		Very Rare	Improved Cobble, Cobble (4/rest)
14th	+5		Very Rare	Path Feature
15th	+5		Very Rare	Improved Efficient Engineering, Quick Tech
16th	+5		Very Rare	Ability Score Improvement
17th	+6		Legendary	Shutdown, Cobble (5/rest)
18th	+6		Legendary 	Greater Reliability
19th	+6		Legendary 	Ability Score Improvement
20th	+6		Legendary 	Engineering Mastery

Engineering
You are a master of engineering. You gain an engineer’s notebook and can perform marvels with the skill that few can even imagine. 

Notebook
At 1st level, your notebook contains four blueprints of your choice that detail the specifications of any device you can create. When you level up, you gain 2 additional blueprints of your choice. You may also acquire new blueprints by research, tutelage, or from the notebooks and blueprints of tinkers who have devices you can create. 

Packrat
Starting at 1st level, you are counted as a Large creature for the purposes of calculating encumbrance, and can carry much more than others of your size.

Cobble
Also starting at 1st level, you may create a cobbled device from any of the following types: firearm, gadget, or explosive (bomb or grenade form only). This takes 3 actions. If a gadget, you may petition the DM on what spell effect the gadget replicates, and the DM decides the most fitting gadget within the rarity allowed. 
You can expend a number of engineering points equal to your maximum minus 1 point (1 point at 1st level) to cobble. A cobbled device costs one-fifth the crafting points as normal for the device’s cost. It can be used only once before disintegrating. If the cobbled device suffers a malfunction, it disintegrates without benefit. A cobbled device cannot be scavenged for parts. 
After cobbling a device that you do not have a blueprint of, there is a 1% chance you memorize the blueprint for 1 day (usually long enough to write down the formula). After being used once, this cannot be used again until after a short rest. You gain more uses of this ability, as described in the tinker class table. 

Knack for It
Starting at 2nd level, you can use your bonus action to make an Agility (Sleight of Hand) check or use your thieves’ tools to disarm a trap or open a lock. 

Efficient Engineering
Starting at 2nd level, your ability to craft devices improves in efficiency. You reduce the crafting cost for your devices from one-half to one-quarter buying price. 
Crafting devices are also one step of complexity faster. This does not also reduce the cost of spell material components. 
Furthermore, you can choose to lower the malfunction rate of all devices you create by a number of points equal to half your Proficiency bonus (minimum 1). 

Tinker Path
At 3rd level, you choose a path that you emulate in the exercise of your tinker abilities: Bomber who focuses on creating explosives, the Gunner who focuses on creating and shooting with firearms, and Gadgeteer who focuses on creating wondrous gadgets, all detailed at the end of the class description.
Your path choice grants you features at 3rd level and then again at 6th, 10th, and 14th levels.

Flash Bomber
Also starting at 3rd level, you also gain the Flash Bomber talent, as the rogue talent of the same name, but may only use it for explosives. 

Ability Score Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature.

Superfunction 
Starting at 5th level, your genius allows you to use malfunction rates to your benefit. Whenever you use a device, there is a chance it performs unexpectedly well—thus the greater the malfunction rate, the greater the superfunction rate. 
The rate for a superfunction is similar to the rate for a malfunction, but based on the maximum dice result. For instance, an explosive of 2 EP that malfunctions on a roll of 1 to 3 can superfunction on a roll of 18 to 20.
When a device superfunctions, it does not roll for a malfunction for the duration of the effect (see below, affected by energy source). It also gains a bonus depending on its energy source. Choose one benefit the device qualifies for. 
•	Better. The next malfunction condition is negated, and the next use of the device consumes no fuel charges (so long as it doesn’t have only one use)
•	Faster. The device gains a 25% increase in movement speed (if a construct or vehicle)
•	Harder. The device cannot lose charges by taking damage (as usual for mechanical engines) 
•	Stronger. The device deals maximum damage (no need to roll) with the next (or current) damage roll it makes

Coolness under Fire
Starting at 7th level, you may take 10 on any attack roll with an engineered device or ability check with engineer’s tools. This can be done a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus, and may be replenished with a long rest. 

Scavenge
Starting at 10th level, when you gather raw materials for use with engineering, you gain triple the total value. This applies when harvesting existing devices such as constructs or gadgets as well as downtime gathering. 

Reliability
Starting at 11th level, whenever a device gains the malfunctioned condition, you may attempt an Intelligence check with engineer’s tools against a DC of 20 to remove the condition. This costs a bonus action or reaction. If you succeed, the condition is negated as if the device didn’t malfunction at all. 
This consumes a Coolness under Fire use. 

Evasion
Also starting at 11th level, you can nimbly dodge out of the way of certain area effects, such as a red dragon’s fiery breath or an ice storm spell. When you are subjected to an effect that allows you to make an Agility saving throw to take only half damage, you instead take no damage if you succeed on the saving throw, and only half damage if you fail. 
If you make a saving throw versus an effect made by you, you can either take half damage automatically or make a saving throw. If you choose to make a saving throw, you take no damage on a successful save, but take normal (full) damage on a failed save.

Improved Cobble
Starting at 13th level, your cobbled devices function twice before disintegrating. The chance you can discover a new blueprint increases to 2% per cobble attempt. 
You can also repurpose an existing gadget you have instead of paying the cost for a cobbled device. After being used twice as a cobbled device, the gadget gains the malfunctioned condition, but returns to its normal purpose. You cannot repurpose a cobbled gadget. 

Improved Efficient Engineering
You reduce the malfunction rating by your proficiency bonus instead of one-half your proficiency bonus (minimum 1). 
You may also deal double damage to objects and constructs with your melee attacks as a strike effect.

Quick Tech
Also starting at 15th level, you may permanently alter the invested properties of any device you handle (even those not used by you). This takes the same time to cobble a device. 
For example, this allows you to increase the damage or range of a firearm, reduce the hit dice of a construct or vehicle, or triple the malfunction rate of any device you handle. You may not alter the engine of an engineered device. 
You cannot reduce a construct’s hit dice by more than half your proficiency bonus. 

Shutdown
Starting at 17th level, you may expend a use of Coolness under Fire to gain one of the following abilities: 
•	Negate Shutdown. You can negate a malfunction without rolling a check. 
•	Shut Down Device. You can increase the malfunction rate of any device within 10 feet of you by 5 points for up to one hour. You can target your own devices to increase the risk of malfunction but possibility for superfunction.

Greater Reliability
Starting at 18th level, the DC to prevent the malfunction is reduced to 15. 

Engineering Mastery
Starting at 20th level, you may identify the weaknesses and command triggers for any device you see. You gain the ability to deduce the operation and design of any device you operate or have one hour to study, and have a 20% chance to recreate it from memory.
You can also spend a reaction if hit by a weapon attack made from a construct, trap, or engineered devices to halve the amount of damage you take from it. 
This does not apply to weapon-like gadgets and devices (such as firearms or crossbows), and does not stack with Evasion. 

Tinker Paths
An Azerothian tinker may choose one of the three below paths. 

Bomber
You appreciate the controlled destruction behind a bomb, terrible surprise beneath a mine, and the terror a rocket invokes. Bomber tinkers often makes use of mortars and rocket or mine launchers, to deny enemy mobility as well as to deal massive damage to their enemies. Bombers are also known as grenadiers. 

Expanded Effect. Starting when you choose this archetype at 3rd level, you increase the range of your bombs and rockets by 15 feet, and the range of your mine’s detection to its blast radius (beyond its actual position). 
Also, any explosive you use is automatically modified by the careful explosion effect, with no cost to the modification.

Corner Blast Strike. Starting at 6th level, whenever you use an explosive, you may center it against one creature in the area of effect, dealing two additional dice of damage. This is a strike effect that can target only one creature within the blast. If the explosive affects only a single creature (either by design or by fact), this is applied automatically without using a bonus action. 

Greater Flash Bomber. Starting at 10th level, you double the amount of times you may use the flash bomber talent before a rest, and can use any explosive (not just in bomb form). 
You also gain the remote blueprint for free if you didn’t already have it, and may employ it to trigger your explosive normally, and can use it with a reaction.

Explosive Resistance. Starting at 14th level, you gain resistance to concussive, thunder, and bludgeoning damage. Also, whenever you are in the area of concussive damage or the blast radius of an explosion, you can ‘ride the blast’ and move up to one-half your speed away from the center of the blast, even if you otherwise took no damage from it. This can propel you upward if the explosion takes place under you.
This distance is added to the distance the explosion already moves you (if possible).

Gunner
You are not only a renowned gunsmith, but is also an excellent marksman. Gunners are often called gunslingers or musketeers, and are usually employed in battlefields.

Quick Reload. Starting when you choose this archetype at 3rd level, you may use a bonus action to reload a firearm instead of an action. 

Special Bullets. Starting at 6th level, you gain the Suffused Arrows ability, as the hunter talent of the same name (gaining proficiency as appropriate), and can create special infused bullets. 

Practiced Precision. Starting at 10th level, you do not take disadvantage to your ranged attack roll while being within 5 feet of a hostile creature, even if you don’t attack them in melee first. 
You also gain the Sharpshooter feat for free. If you already had it, you gain the Archery fighting style (applicable to firearms only). 

Firearm Improvement. Starting at 14th level, firearms you create always benefit from one free modification (1 point), chosen from any modification that applies to firearms. 

Gadgeteer
You appreciate the versatility gadgets provide, or prefer to craft and control constructs such as mechs and vehicles of all types. Gadgeteers are often the drivers of their own devices, such as the engines of goblin balloons, dwarf steam tanks, or gnomish submarines and gyrocopters.

Quick Cooldown. Starting when you choose this archetype at 3rd level, your gadgets and constructs always benefit from the quick use and quick startup modifications, respectively. This has no cost. 

Extensive Designing. Starting at 6th level, you may increase the spell levels replicated by your gadgets to 1 spell level per Engineering Point invested (maximum 6th level). 
You also add your proficiency bonus to attack rolls with your constructs. 

Solid Engineering. Starting at 10th level, your devices never not lose charges when they are damaged, and all your devices (except bombs and firearms) have double the normal fuel efficiency (gadgets can be used twice for one charge, and constructs consume fuel once per two hours). 
Also, you may craft your own phlogiston, gaining proficiency in Alchemist’s Supplies if you don’t already have it, and memorize the formula for making this fuel, and no longer need a recipe. 

Protective Shell. Starting at 14th level, whenever you are wearing a gadget harness, or are within a construct you control or crafted, you have resistance to all damage from outside it. This applies after sharing damage with a mecha or suit (possibly taking only 25% of all damage). 

Warlock (WRK)
Her hand waving playfully around the mana wyrm, a blood elf soothes the critter. In an instant, the wyrm’s calm nature turns to anguish, as the elf’s eyes turn green and the beast’s essence is drawn towards her. Nothing is left but a glowing orb of raw mana between the elf’s fingers.

The earth beneath the orc’s feet decaying, the grass dying. An infernal nears the orc, waiting patiently for his master’s command. Impatiently, the infernal screeches, causing even the orc to wince with fear, as the demon’s master grins from the shadows beyond.

Murlocs advance upon the forsaken limping through the swamp. Without breaking his stride, he waves his hand behind him, engulfing the murlocs in flame. He marches on, scourging whoever stands in his way. 

Warlocks are magical practitioners that seek to understand darker, fel-based magics, including destructive spells. While many warlocks willingly follow the Burning Legion, there are those who work against it, using their magic to fight against evil. Warlocks have proven themselves to be powerful allies - as well as powerful foes.
In the face of demonic power, most heroes see death. Warlocks see only opportunity. Dominance is their aim, and they have found a path to it in the dark arts. These voracious spellcasters summon demonic minions to fight beside them. Warlocks can ignite distant enemies in searing flame, send them fleeing in terror and pain, or afflict them with corrupting diseases and curses that steal the victim’s vitality.

FORBIDDEN MYSTERIES
Born of trafficking with fel magic, warlocks are absolutely corrupt and unimaginably powerful. Their chaos magics have burnt out whole worlds and annihilated countless species over the eons. The Eredar lord Kil'jaeden taught the orcs the secrets of warlock magics, but the orcs could never master the powers of entropy and destruction as well the wicked Eredar. Under Archimonde's command, the warlocks serve as the Legion's tacticians and strategists.
Warlocks peer into the Void without hesitation, leveraging the chaos they glimpse within to devastating ends in battle—their greatest abilities are fueled by the souls they’ve harvested from their victims. They exploit powerful Shadow magic to manipulate and degrade the minds and bodies of their enemies. They employ Fire magic, dropping hellish rain from the sky, to immolate the opposition. They summon and command otherwise indomitable demons from the Twisting Nether to do their bidding, or even to be sacrificed as the Warlock sees fit, protecting the dark caster from harm.
These practitioners of the profane are feared across Azeroth, and many who have felt their wrath now prefer to fight alongside a warlock than against one. Warlocks are common in both the Alliance and Horde, though in most cases they serve the Burning Legion while disguising their true loyalties. 

CONJURING AND BINDING
Warlocks are the most volatile and insatiable of spellcasters. Though they often pledge themselves to the service of noble causes and are not innately evil, their desire to understand darker magics and exercise unwavering command over demonic forces breeds mistrust among even their closest allies.
These dark casters burn and destroy weakened foes with a combination of crippling illnesses and dark magic. While their demon pets protect and enhance them, warlocks strike at their enemies from a distance. As physically weak spellcasters bereft of heavy armor, cunning warlocks allow their minions to take the brunt of enemy attacks in order to save their own skin.

CREATING A WARLOCK
Warlocks are arcane spellcasters who study dark arts and magics associated with demons and the Burning Legion. Due to this, they gain a very deeply tainted reputation due to their tendencies to traffic and deal with demons. Hiding in cellars and secret covens, warlocks are known for making secret pacts for permanent demonic companions that grow steadily in power so long as the warlock does. 
Warlocks are common in both the Alliance and Horde, though in most cases they serve the Burning Legion while disguising their true loyalties. 
When creating your warlock character, think about what led you to take up the powers of evil. Did you decide to beat the forces of evil at their own game? Were you seduced by dark forces? Do you view the fel as truly evil? 
However you chose to follow the path of power, think about what implications it has on your character, and how they are perceived by greater society. Most warlocks are shunned, and live as pariahs—you could be a highly charismatic character, hiding your true talent for the dark arts, however, or might be justifying it to your followers and loved ones as fighting fire with fire. 

QUICK BUILD
You can make a warlock quickly by following these suggestions. First, Charisma should be your highest ability score, followed by Stamina. Second, choose the charlatan background. Second, choose the charlatan background. Third, choose the light, fire bolt, and chill touch cantrips, along with the following 1st-level spells for your grimoire: burning hands, charm (fiends), chaos bolt, conjure (fiends), immolate, and sleep.

CLASS FEATURES
As a warlock, you gain the following class features.

HIT POINTS
Hit Dice: 1d6 per warlock level
Hit Points at 1st Level: 6 + your Stamina modifier
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d6 (or 4) + your Stamina modifier per warlock level after 1st.

PROFICIENCIES
Armor: None
Weapons: Daggers, darts, slings, quarterstaffs, light crossbows
Tools: None
Saving Throws: Charisma, Spirit
Skills: Choose two from Arcana, Deception, Insight, Intimidation, Persuasion, and Religion

EQUIPMENT
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
•	(a) a light crossbow and 20 bolts or (b) any simple weapon
•	(a) a component pouch or (b) an arcane focus
•	(a) a dungeoneer’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack
•	Demonic grimoire (spellbook)

Warlock Class 
Level	Proficiency	Features					Caster level (Spell level)
1st	+2		Eredun, Demonic Studies, Demonic Invocation, 	1 (1st)
Spellcasting 
2nd	+2		Soul Shards					2 (1st)
3rd	+2		Warlock Focus					3 (2nd)
4th	+2		Ability Score Improvement			4 (2nd)
5th	+3		-						5 (3rd)
6th	+3		Demonic Study Feature				6 (3rd)
7th	+3		-						7 (4th)
8th	+3		Ability Score Improvement			8 (4th)
9th	+4		-						9 (5th)
10th	+4		Demonic Study Feature				10 (5th)
11th	+4		-						11 (6th)
12th	+4		Ability Score Improvement			12 (6th)
13th	+5		-						13 (7th)
14th	+5		Demonic Study Feature				14 (7th)
15th	+5		-						15 (8th)
16th	+5		Ability Score Improvement			16 (8th)
17th	+6		-						17 (9th)
18th	+6		Demonic Study Feature				18 (9th)
19th	+6		Ability Score Improvement			19 (9th)
20th	+6		Soul Vault					20 (9th)

Eredun
You know Eredun, the language of fiends and the Burning Legion. You can speak the language, and do not suffer any penalty from its curse. If you can speak Eredun, you can communicate with all other warlocks and fiends, even if you don’t otherwise share a language.
However, you are (due to demonic promises) often more likely than others to seek out pacts willingly.

Demonic Studies
Starting at 1st level, the warlock is also initiated into a warlock circle. You may choose a demonic study, which describes the way you take to power. You can choose Affliction, the path of the withering magical casters, Demonology, who focus on their demonic allies and improving them, or Destruction, who summons Hellfire upon their foes. Your choice grants you features when you choose it at 1st level and again at 6th, 14th, and 18th level.

Demonic Invocation
Starting at 1st level, you may rapidly recover your mana by subjecting yourself to the foul taint of the fel. You can use your action and bonus action on your turn to regain mana as if completed a short rest (or rested for one hour). 
You can use this feature up to one time per every two points of proficiency bonus. You regain expended uses when you finish a long rest.
Alternatively, if you use this during a short rest, you are treated as if you rested for two hours. 

Spellcasting
Also starting at 1st level, you gain the ability to cast spells, trafficking in demonic forces most have no hope of understanding or controlling. You have a grimoire containing spells that show the first glimmerings of your true power. 

Cantrips
At 1st level, you know a number of cantrips equal to your proficiency bonus.

Conjuring and Binding 
A warlock can conjure and bind aberrations, elementals, fiends, oozes, and undead. 

Grimoire
At 1st level, you have a grimoire (treat as a spellbook) containing six 1st-level warlock spells of your choice.

Preparing and Casting Spells
Each warlock level provides you with 1 caster level in the warlock class. You follow the normal progression to unlock spell levels (see the table under the Mana section). You prepare the list of warlock spells that are available for you to cast, choosing from the warlock spell list. 
Preparing a new list of warlock spells requires time spent in study: at least 1 minute per spell level for each spell on your list.

Spellcasting Ability
Charisma is your spellcasting ability for your warlock spells, since you strengthen your magic by summoning and tapping into extraplanar beings. 
You use your Charisma whenever a spell refers to your spellcasting ability. In addition, you use your Charisma modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a warlock spell you cast and when making an attack roll with one.
Spell save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier
Spell attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier

Spellbook – Grimoire
At 1st level, your grimoire contains six 1st-level warlock spells of your choice. When you level up, you gain 2 additional warlock spells of your choice. You may also acquire new spells by research, tutelage, or from the spellbooks and scrolls of spellcasters who have spells you can cast. 
Your grimoire is effectively your spellbook, and you may add spells by scribing in new spells or your insights regarding the planes and the powers you serve.

Spellcasting Focus
You can use an arcane focus as a spellcasting focus for your warlock spells.

Soul Shards
At 2nd level, you tap into a deep and mysterious magic of souls. This wellspring is represented by soul shards, which allow you to weaken your enemies or strengthen your own spells.

Soul Shards
You gain one soul shard by reducing living creatures to 0 hit points or less with your warlock spells or melee attacks, or if any creature is killed by one of your demon summons. This does not also trap the souls of the creatures killed. 
You can have a maximum number of soul shards equal to your Warlock level. Soul shards fades at a rate of one per hour (or 1 per short rest) if not used. The creature must be a qualifying threat to you (such as by having a Challenge comparable with your level, or if it is able to reliably or consistently harm you).

•	Enhanced Conjuring: You may spend one soul shard per spell level, and quicken any conjure spell of a casting time of 1 minute to cost only a 1 action. For until the beginning of your turn in the next round, your speed is 0. 
•	Enhanced Concentration: When you cast a conjuration warlock spell that requires concentration, you may spend one soul shard to concentrate on the spell, instead of having to concentrate on it yourself. You cannot concentrate on more than two conjured creatures using this ability. When your concentration is disrupted, you must roll to maintain both spells, however. This costs one soul shard per spell level. 
•	Soul Magic: With a bonus action, you can force a living creature or an undead to take disadvantage against a saving throw of one of your warlock spells, or can gain advantage to your own attack rolls to such targets. This functions up to 5th level spells, and costs one soul shard per spell level. 

Warlock Focus. At 3rd level, you may choose to focus on one of two warlock focuses. 
•	Fiendish Power: The warlock permanently increases their maximum amount of soul shards by 2. 
•	Fiendish Alliance: The warlock gains a permanent bound companion that accompanies you on your adventures, advises you in the ways of demonology, and teaches you magical spells upon the completion of tasks (determined by the DM). See Bound Companion for details.

This companion must be a demon you can summon and bind to your service (see the bind spell) that is no larger than Medium and that has a challenge rating equal to the highest-level demon you can bind fiends spell. See Bound Companion and the bind spell for more details. 

Bond
When a fiend you are bound to is reduced to 0 hit points, you may transfer to them your own hit points as a reaction, so long as you are within 10 feet of them. You may only transfer enough hit points to leave them at 1 hit point. You can also have the conjure fiend spell memorized, and do not need to prepare it.
If the bound fiend is killed, you must succeed against a DC 20 Stamina saving throw or suffer 1d10 arcane damage per Challenge of the demon, as its life-force is torn from yours. As the fiend is dead, you must bond with another. 

Leveling up
The level of the fiend is equal to the highest-level demon you can bind with the warlock’s Bind Fiend spell.

Special
Bonding with a fiend requires spending one hour communicating with the creature, and spending the next seven hours in activities the fiend considers to be ‘bonding’, such as arsony for imps, bloodshed for felguards, as the DM decides.

Ability Score Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature.

Soul Vault
When you reach 20th level, you may gain two soul shards instead of one per every enemy reduced to 0 hit points as a result of your warlock spells. 
Also, you may stow your grimoire into the pocket realm (known as the soul vault) of your choosing by using 3 soul shards, and can draw it out using 1 soul shard. You do not need to physically possess the grimoire at that time, but must be within 100 feet of it, and spend 1 action to banish it into the realm or draw it back again. 
Only you can access the pocket realm, unless you choose a realm that multiple creatures can enter (in which case, you can designate the grimoire to appear at any point you previously conducted a 1-hour ritual to attune the book to the place). 

Demonic Studies
An Azerothian warlock may choose one of the three below archetypes. 

Affliction
Your mastery over sigil spells corrupts and destroys your enemies. Affliction warlocks are feared exemplars of the art.

Haunt. Starting at 1st level, you gain the Mystic Blast feat, but must choose to deal fel damage. 
When casting a damaging sigil spell, you may use a single soul shard to also use your make a Mystic Blast attack against the same target as a bonus action. This still requires a ranged spell attack, but the range of the mystic blast becomes equal to the range of the sigil spell. 
Furthermore, whenever a creature dies while under the effect of a warlock sigil you cast, you gain a soul shard. This can stack with the soul shard you gain from landing a killing blow.

Infestation. Also starting at 1st level, you may use a soul shard to refresh the duration of a current sigil effect, or to automatically succeed on maintaining a sigil effect. 
A single creature cannot be affected by this more than once in the same 24 hours period. 

Soul Swap. Starting at 6th level, you may alter the target of a sigil spell effect as a bonus action, targeting any eligible target within a range equal to the spell’s original range. The spell’s effects take place at the new target’s turn as usual.
If you are under the effects of the avatar form warlock spell and you choose to altar the target of the sigil spell with this ability, you may attempt a sigil roll on your original target before shifting the spell (possibly affecting two targets in the same turn).

Seed of Corruption. Starting at 14th level, if you reduce a creature to 0 hit points with a damaging sigil or single-target channel spell effect, you may deal the damage again in a 30-foot burst (this does not count as an additional hit against the original target).

Corruptive Influence. Starting at 18th level, if any target of a damaging sigil spell or single-target channeling spell effect you cast dies, you may alter the target or move the spell’s area (if an area spell) without an action. Seed of Corruption still triggers as normal.

Demonology
Your consorting with demons has been noticed and appreciated by the forces in the Twisting Nether. A demonologist often adventures alone, relying on nobody other than himself and his enslaved demons. 

Blood Pact. Starting at 1st level, all demons summoned or bonded to you gain a bonus to their maximum hit points equal to double your level. You may also add your proficiency bonus to all your fiendish allies’ attack rolls and saving throws. 

Demonic Echoes. Also starting at 1st level, you may count demons as eligible targets for all creature-specific spells by using a soul shard (such as charm person or hold elemental). You may at any time grant your hit points to them as a reaction on their round, or a bonus action on your round. You may also drain their hit points with the same action (at a 2:1 ratio), though you can only benefit from drained hit points once every long rest. 
Furthermore, you gain two soul shards instead of one if a demon under your control kills a creature. 

Fel Mind. Starting at 6th level, you can use Enhanced Concentration without spending Soul Shards. 

Dark Secrets. Starting at 14th level, you gain advantage to all saves versus spells, except those who deal holy damage, and gain immunity to one elemental damage type. You may also use a soul shard and a reaction to grant one demonic ally advantage to its first attack during a round, or impose disadvantage to the attacker targeting it. 
Furthermore, when you are under the effects of the avatar form warlock spell, you also gain resistance to all damage taken by fiends and weapons (magical or otherwise) wielded by creatures of evil alignment. 

Demon-Soul. Starting at 18th level, whenever you summon a demonic creature by a spell or use your fiendish alliance ability to bind a fiend (as per the Conjure or Bind Fiend spell), you may summon or bind another fiend of the same or lower level (these are counted as if concentrating on the same spell). Thus, you may summon a succubus and a felguard, or an imp and a felhound, or two succubi or felguards and have them bound at the same time. Commanding both bound creatures is the same concentration action. 
When you are killed, your spirit is taken to an demiplane (see the spell) that is owned by you, where you return to life in the matter of 1d10 days, nurtured by any demonic allies you have employed, enslaved, or allied with. 

Destruction
You are a master of chaotic fel-fire, calling down the green flame to burn and demolish your foes. Destruction warlocks usually take the Fiendish Power focus, eschewing an actual alliance with demons over the awesome destructive power of fel magic.

Chaos Magic. Starting at 1st level, any fire or fel spell you use that deals damage also deals an additional 1d6 points of the other type (fire deals extra 1d6 fel, or vice versa). Spells that deal both fire and fel damage gain an additional 1d10 damage from either types (your choice). This triggers once per spell. 

Havoc. Also at 1st level, you gain the Havoc ability, and can spend a soul shard to activate it.
•	Havoc: You may spend one soul shard to affect two creatures within 30 feet of one another with a single-target damaging or channeling (such inferno blast or drain mana), so long as the spell is from the warlock spell list. The spell cannot have a range of touch or self. Maintaining the spell on one target maintains it on the other so long as the spell’s duration is active. 
Furthermore, you also gain two soul shards instead of one if you reduce a creature to 0 hit points with a channeled warlock spell. 

Searing Magics. Starting at 6th level, you may also target a creature with an action to make it more susceptible to your fire and fel magical damage. If the target is immune to fire or fel, it becomes resistant to the damage. If it is resistant, it loses the resistance. If it has no resistance, it becomes vulnerable. If it was previously vulnerable, it takes triple damage. Once used, this ability cannot be used again until after a short rest (unless you used this ability while under the effects of the avatar form warlock spell, in which case you can use the ability twice).

Incinerate. Starting at 14th level, whenever you deal fire damage to an enemy with a spell (through the spell or through your chaos magic ability), you may use a soul shard to manifest one of the following effects. This triggers once per round. 
•	Burning Blast. If the target is reduced to 0 hit points, you can deal 6d6 damage (or the damage they took, whichever is lower) in a 30-foot burst centered on the target.
•	Lingering Brimfire. The target suffers the burning condition for until the end of their turn in the next round. While suffering this condition and taking at least 1 point of damage in the same round, the target has disadvantage to attack rolls and ability checks. 
•	Quickened Infestations. Cast any sigil spell you have prepared without spending the normal casting time.

Soul Burner. Starting at 18th level, you double the range of your fire and fel spells. If the spell has an area of effect, you may double the area of effect instead. Your Incinerate ability also does not cost a soul shard. 

Warrior (WAR)
The heavily-armored dwarf takes a deep breath, tightening his grip on a war-hammer in one hand and a battleaxe in the other, facing down the ogre warlord raiding his mountain home. The mountain king shouts a battle-cry, suddenly increasing in size to equal the ogre, and swings his axe to dig deeply into the ogre’s shoulder, before bringing down the war-hammer, causing a bloody shower to erupt onto his face.

An orc armed with a great two-handed blade leaps towards two naga, cleaving through both with a single strike and shaking the ground where he fell. Not breaking a sweat, he charges ahead to the next foe. 

A tauren calmly strides across the fel-suffused battlefield, seeking a worthy opponent. Eventually, he finds his match, a bloodthirsty felguard. Treading carefully, he parries every blow with his giant battle-totem. Noticing an opportunity, the tauren warrior slams his hooves into the ground, knocking the felguard down, and then bringing down his mighty totem down, caving the fiend’s torso inward with a furious war-cry.
Warriors are fighters highly trained in the art of weaponry. Combat is the warrior's strongest skill. They are strong and quick on the battlefield. Depending on their specialization, a warrior can often deal very high damage or be tough to kill.

TRAINED FOR BATTLE
As long as war is waged on Azeroth, there will be men and women who fight those wars. Warriors are no mere sword-swingers; they are skilled combatants, combining strength of arm, knowledge of weaponry, and practiced maneuvers to slice or bludgeon their foes into little red bits. Warriors are the most versatile of the combat classes, and they supplement their fighting prowess with the ability to rally their allies and spur them to victory. They charge into the heart of the battle and survive the most grievous of wounds. Elven and dwarven warriors reach into their blood for innate magic, creating spellbreakers and mountain kings, respectively, while tauren and orcs lean naturally towards using a single large weapon and the Arms path, creating chieftains and blademasters, respectively. 
Warriors are common in dwarf, forsaken, human, and orc societies, but many other species also fill their ranks with warriors. Masters of swords, spears, and weapons of all kinds, warriors share a common way of life on Azeroth. Using their abilities to deal pain and cause bloodshed, warriors are deadly adversaries and welcome friends in violent times (which seem to be all the time in recent decades). Anyone willing to take up arms to defend their people can be classed as a warrior. A knight is the warrior elite among humans.

ELITE FIGHTERS
Not every member of the city watch, village militia, or the queen’s army is a warrior. Most of these troops are relatively untrained soldiers with only the most basic combat knowledge or drilled for a certain function. Veteran soldiers, military officers, trained bodyguards, dedicated knights, and similar figures are true warriors—it is all about the spirit, in truth.
Some warriors feel drawn to use their training as adventurers. The dungeon delving, monster slaying, and other dangerous work common among adventurers is second nature for a warrior, not all that different from the life he or she left behind. Other warriors live a more stable life, serving as elite members in an order or military force, answering assignments and missions that involve armed pacification of resistance or the escort of vulnerable charges. 

CREATING A WARRIOR
For as long as war has raged, heroes from every race have aimed to master the art of battle. Warriors combine strength, leadership, and a vast knowledge of arms and armor to wreak havoc in glorious combat. Some protect from the front lines with shields, locking down enemies while allies support the warrior from behind with spell and bow. Others forgo the shield and unleash their rage at the closest threat with a variety of deadly weapons.
As you build your warrior, think about your character’s background: Where did you get your combat training, and what sets you apart from the mundane soldiers around you? You might have enjoyed formal training in a noble’s army or in a local militia. Perhaps you trained in a war academy, learning strategy, tactics, and military history. Or you might be self—taught—unpolished but well tested. 
Were you particularly ruthless? Did you get extra help from a mentor, or did your spirit shine brightly enough to warrant the title due to exceptional dedication? What drove you to this training in the first place? Was it a threat to your homeland, a thirst for revenge, or a need to prove yourself?
Did you take up the sword as a way to escape the limits of life on a farm, or are you following a proud family tradition? Where did you acquire your weapons and armor? They might have been military issue or family heirlooms, or perhaps you scrimped and saved for years to buy them. Your armaments are now among your most important possessions—the only things that stand between you and death's embrace.

QUICK BUILD
You can make a warrior quickly by following these suggestions. First, make Strength or Agility your highest ability score, depending on whether you want to focus on melee weapons or on archery (or finesse weapons). Your next-highest score should be Stamina. Second, choose the soldier background.

CLASS FEATURES
As a warrior, you gain the following class features.

HIT POINTS
Hit Dice: 1d10 per warrior level
Hit Points at 1st Level: 10 + your Stamina modifier
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) + your Stamina modifier per warrior level after 1st

PROFICIENCIES
Armor: All armor, shields 
Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons 
Tools: None
Saving Throws: Strength, Stamina
Skills: Choose two skills from Acrobatics, Animal Handling, Athletics, History, Insight, Intimidation, Perception, and Survival

EQUIPMENT
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
•	(a) chain mail or (b) leather, longbow, and 20 arrows
•	(a) a martial weapon and a shield or (b) two martial weapons
•	(a) a light crossbow and 20 bolts or (b) two handaxes
•	(a) a dungeoneer’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack

SPECIAL FEATURES
Upon gaining your starting class proficiencies, you may lose proficiency with heavy armor, and instead gain the unarmored defense ability. These are not gained as part of multi-classing. 

Unarmored Defense
While you are not wearing any armor, your Armor Class equals 10 + your Agility modifier + your Stamina modifier. You can use a shield and still gain this benefit.

Talents. If you wish to recreate the original 5e Fighter, choose the following talents the appropriate levels: 
•	Second Wind as the first talent at 1st level
•	Action Surge as the second talent at 2nd level
•	Indomitable as the third talent at 9th level
•	Relentless as the fourth talent at 13th level
•	Action Surge as the fifth talent at 17th level

If you wish to recreate something closer to the original 5e Barbarian, choose the following talents the appropriate levels, and choose the Unarmored Defense option for class proficiencies (see above): 
•	Berserker Rage as the first talent at 1st level
•	Danger Sense as the second talent at 2nd level
•	Relentless as the third talent at 9th level
•	Persistent Rage as the fourth talent at 13th level
•	Indomitable Might as the fifth talent at 17th level

Warrior Class
Level	Proficiency	Talent 	Features
1st	+2		1	Fighting Style, Warrior Talent
2nd	+2		2	-
3rd	+2		2	Warrior Archetype
4th	+2		2	Ability Score Improvement
5th	+3		2	Extra Attack
6th	+3		2	Ability Score Improvement
7th	+3		2	Warrior Archetype feature
8th	+3		2	Ability Score Improvement
9th	+4		3	Warrior Talent
10th	+4		3	Warrior Archetype feature
11th	+4		3	Extra Attack (2)
12th	+4		3	Ability Score Improvement
13th	+5		4	-
14th	+5		4	Ability Score Improvement
15th	+5		4	Warrior Archetype feature
16th	+5		4	Ability Score Improvement
17th	+6		5	-
18th	+6		5	Warrior Archetype feature
19th	+6		5	Ability Score Improvement
20th	+6		5	Extra Attack (3) 

Fighting Style
You adopt a particular style of fighting as your specialty. Choose one of the following options. You can’t take a Fighting Style option more than once, even if you later get to choose again.

Archery
You gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls you make with ranged weapons.

Defense
While you are wearing armor, you gain a +1 bonus to AC. 

Dueling
When you are wielding a melee weapon in one hand and no other weapons, you gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls with that weapon.

Great Weapon Fighting
When you roll a 1 or 2 on a damage die for an attack you make with a melee weapon that you are wielding with two hands, you can reroll the die and must use the new roll, even if the new roll is a 1 or a 2. The weapon must have the two-handed or versatile property for you to gain this benefit.

Protection
When a creature you can see attacks a target other than you that is within 5 feet of you, you can use your reaction to impose disadvantage on the attack roll. You must be wielding a shield.

Two-Weapon Fighting
When you engage in two-weapon fighting, you can add your ability modifier to the damage of the second attack.

Warrior Talent
Starting at 2nd level, you gain one of the following talents, representing your preferred tactics and adaptability at the field of battle. Choose from between one of the following talents. Some abilities can be used for limited times before requiring a rest. 
Whenever you qualify for another talent (as detailed in the talent column), you may choose another talent. 
All abilities have DCs of 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Strength or Agility modifier (your choice) if they allow a saving throw.
You may also choose to gain a talent from outside this class’s list so long as you qualify for it. 

Warrior Archetype
At 3rd level, you choose an archetype that you strive to emulate in your combat styles and techniques. Choose between the Arms Warrior, a champion in using great-weapons, the Fury Warrior, who focuses on bleeding his enemies and debilitating them tactically, or the Protection Warrior who focuses on defense while reflecting physical damage. All are detailed at the end of the class description. The archetype you choose grants you features at 3rd level and again at 7th, 10th, 15th, and 18th level.

Ability Score Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 6th, 8th, 12th, 14th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature.

Extra Attack
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn. The number of attacks increases to three when you reach 11th level in this class and to four when you reach 20th level in this class.

Warrior Talents
•	Action Surge (short rest). You can push yourself beyond your normal limits for a moment. On your turn, you can take one additional action on top of your regular action and a possible bonus action. Once you use this feature, you must finish a short before you can use it again. Only warriors may take this talent. This talent can be taken again at proficiency +6, gaining another use. 
•	Aggressive. You may use your bonus action to take the Dash action, but only to approach a hostile creature that you can see. 
•	Berserker Rage. You may cast the berserker rage spell on yourself as a bonus action. When you rage using this talent, you do not gain a level of exhaustion at the end (regardless of how long you rage). This rage continues until you end it with a bonus action, or until the rage ends early (as per the spell’s description). This spell cannot be dispelled, but can be overwhelmed by a calm emotions spell or similar effect that would suppress this ability. You can enter a rage this way a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus before replenishing on a long rest. Only warriors may take this talent. This talent must be taken at 1st level. 
•	Bladestorm. You may enter this stance with an action. While in this stance, you whirl with your weapon outstretched, automatically dealing your melee weapon damage to all creatures within the weapon’s reach of you. This damage is treated as an area effect. Affected targets are entitled an Agility saving throw to halve the damage. 
You cannot take any other actions in this stance other than maintaining it. You can enter this stance a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus before replenishing on a short rest, and the effects of it remain until the beginning of your turn in the next round. You may also maintain the stance by extending it (same action). 
While in this stance, you have advantage against all movement-impairing effects or effects that result in loss of control for your character, and you do not provoke reactions from movement if you deal at least 1 point of damage to a creature. Your speed, however, is halved in this stance. 
If you are unable to use your action, or if you cannot move at least 5 feet every round, this stance ends. If you are in this stance more than 3 rounds, you gain the incapacitated condition for after you are finished. The condition remains for 1 round per round you were in the stance beyond the first three.
•	Brutal Critical. You can roll one additional weapon damage die when determining the extra damage for a critical hit with a melee weapon attack. This talent can be taken again up to two times (resulting in three additional dice). 
•	Burning Blades. As a bonus action, you can ignite any number of weapons you are wielding with magic flame. The weapon acts as if it gained the Elemental Damage Infusion for 1 minute and becomes magical. Despite the talent’s name, you can choose which damage type the weapon deals (not necessarily fire). You can ignite a total number of weapons equal to your proficiency bonus. Once this feature’s uses are expended, they replenish on a long rest. You can regain one use if you reduce a creature that deals the same type of elemental damage (such as by spell, attack, or aura) to 0 hit points or killing them. Only warriors and hunters can take this talent. 
•	Danger Sense. You gain an uncanny sense of when things nearby aren’t as they should be, giving you an edge when you dodge away from danger. You have advantage on Agility saving throws against effects that you can see, such as traps and spells. To gain this benefit, you can’t be blinded, deafened, or incapacitated. You must be able to see the effect before it takes place (such as seeing a character cast a spell or the outer mechanism of the trap).
•	Execute. Make a normal melee attack or a ranged attack within 5 feet as an action (you cannot benefit from Extra Attacks). If the attack is successful and the target's remaining hit points are less than 25%, this is treated as a critical hit. After being used, this cannot be used again until after a short rest. If the target is killed or reduced to 0 hit points by this strike, you regain the use of it. This talent can be taken multiple times, each time adding another use before requiring a short rest. This is a strike effect. 
•	Hamstring. You may cut a target’s hamstring as part of this attack. The target’s movement speed is reduced by 10 feet for one minute. Also, whenever they move more than half their speed or whenever they use the Dash action, they fall prone. The target (or an ally) may use an action to roll a Stamina saving throw against this ability, which ends the condition. It ends automatically at the end of a short rest. 
This speed reduction can be applied multiple times, to a minimum speed of 0 (in which case the target is treated as if restrained). This is a strike effect. This strike can be used a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus, with the uses replenishing at the end of a short rest. 
•	Heroic Leap. You may make a heroic leap, jumping up to twice your normal distance, and can spend an action at the end. If the action is a melee attack roll, it deals damage equal to your normal weapon damage in a 10-foot sphere, centered on the area you landed on, with an Agility saving throw to half damage. The ground is also turned into difficult terrain (such as rubble) if applicable. Once used, this talent cannot be used again until after a short rest. Only warriors and monks may take this talent.
•	Heroic Throw. You may throw a weapon further than it can normally go, or throw a melee weapon that does not have that property. You may increase the range of an existing thrown weapon by 60 feet, or give a melee weapon the thrown property (20/60 feet) for one round. 
On a hit, the weapon can either return to you after being thrown at a target, or knock the target prone (Agility save negates), dropping 5 feet from the target. This is a strike effect. 
•	Indomitable (requires proficiency +4 or higher). You can reroll a saving throw that you fail. If you do so, you must use the new roll, even if it is lower than the initial roll. You may use this talent one time per every 2 points of your proficiency bonus (twice at +4, and three times at +6). 
•	Indomitable Might (requires proficiency +3 or higher). If you roll a Strength check and the results are less than your Strength score, treat the result as your Strength score instead. 
•	Persistent Rage (requires proficiency of +4 or higher, and the berserker rage talent). Your rage only ends if you are knocked unconscious or if you end your rage willingly.
•	Reckless Attack. When you make your first attack on your turn, you can decide to attack recklessly. Doing so gives you advantage on melee attack rolls using Strength on this turn, but attack rolls against you have advantage until your next turn. 
•	Relentless (requires proficiency +3 or higher). If you drop to 0 hit points and don't die outright, you can make a DC 10 Stamina saving throw. If you succeed, you drop to 1 hit point instead. Each time this is used, you increase the DC by 5 points. The DC resets once you take a short rest. Rogues and hunters recognize this talent as cheat death. 
•	Retaliation (requires proficiency of +4 or higher). When you take damage from a creature that is within 5 feet of you, you can use your reaction to make a melee weapon attack against that creature. This ability can be used a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus, with the uses replenishing after a short rest. This is also sometimes known as counterattack or storm of blades by hunters and rogues, respectively.
•	Second Wind. You have a limited well of stamina you can draw upon to protect yourself from harm. On your turn, you can use a bonus action to regain hit points equal to 1d10 + your warrior level. Once you use this feature, you must finish a short or long rest before you can use it again. Only warriors may talent this talent. This talent must be taken at 1st level.
•	Shockwave. You slam your weapon (manufactured or natural) into the ground, creating a ripple of force that shoots outward. This deals damage equal to your weapon damage, and affects a line 5-foot thick and 30 feet long. All creatures in the area in contact with the ground or within 5 feet of it that succeed on an Agility saving throw take half damage. The terrain damaged becomes difficult terrain (such as rubble) if applicable. If you have extra attacks, you may spend them to add the minimum possible damage to your total. Once this talent is used, it cannot be used again until after a short rest.
•	Shock Resistant. You are more resilient against effects that would otherwise shock or stun a normal creature. You have advantage to saving throws against any effect that would cause the stunned condition. If an effect causes the condition as a secondary effect, the advantage applies only against the condition. Only warriors and monks may take this talent. 
•	Shout. You are able to channel your warrior spirit into a powerful shout—manifesting either as a mindless scream, commanding battle-cries, or an inspiring and short statement. Choose one of the following shout effects. 
o	Battle. One target within range you choose deals extra weapon damage equal to your proficiency bonus.
o	Intimidating. One target within range is affected as if you cast the cause fear spell. Maintaining the shout maintains the spell. 
o	Reordering. One target within range can move up to one-quarter their speed as their reaction. You can change the target of this shout by maintaining it. 
o	Halting. One target within range has their speed halved. You can use this shout as a reaction.
o	Invigorating. You may maintain this shout for up to three rounds at one target within range. At the start of your turn on the fourth round, the target increases their maximum hit points by one-half your level for one hour (cannot exceed double their maximum hit points), or can spend a single healing dice to heal themselves. 
o	Rallying. One target within range is affected as if you cast the heroism spell (treat your Stamina modifier as the relevant spellcasting modifier). Maintaining the shout maintains the spell (up to the spell’s normal limit). 
o	Startling. One target within range suffers disadvantage to their attack rolls. You can activate this shout as a reaction if the attack takes place outside your turn, and you may maintain it on your turn and choose another target. This is a fear effect.
o	Taunting. One target within range is affected as if you cast the compelled duel spell. Maintaining the shout maintains the spell (up to the spell’s normal limit). 
Performing a shout takes a bonus action to activate and maintain. A shout effect ends by the start of your turn in the next round, unless you maintain it by spending a bonus action when your turn starts. The range of a shout effect is up to 30 ft. 
If the target of a shout leaves the range or is defeated, the effect ends for them. If a creature is affected by a shout used by you, or succeeds on their saving throw against it, they cannot be affected again by the same shout until one minute passes. A shout is a thunder effect that does not function in areas of silence or if you cannot vocalize. 
You can use each shout twice before a short rest. You can take this talent multiple times, each time adding another shout, or adding two other uses to an existing shout. Only warriors may take this talent.
•	Stunning Slam. Upon scoring a critical hit with a melee weapon, you can stun your target for until the end of your turn in the next round. This can be negated with a successful Stamina saving throw. A creature affected by this ability (whether they successfully save or not) cannot be affected by it for 24 hours. 
•	Tremor (requires Strength of 15 or higher). You may use a bonus action to cause a small localized tremor (usually by stomping your foot or slamming your fist down), dealing your unarmed strike damage in a 5-foot sphere centered on you, halved on an Agility save. Those who fail the saving throw are also knocked prone. If you have a natural weapon, you can use it to determine the damage you deal instead. If you use this ability at the end of a Heroic Leap, you may add +5 to the total damage. 
This talent can be used a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus before replenishing after a short rest. 
•	Thunder Clap. You may use your action to cast the thunderstorm spell by slamming your weapon into the ground, releasing a wave of force. The spell deals normal damage, plus your weapon damage roll. You may, instead of pushing targets away on a failed saving throw, choose to their speed by 10 feet for one minute. A creature may repeat its saving throw at the end of its turn every round to restore its full speed. This is a supernatural ability. Once this ability is used, it cannot be used again until after a short rest.
•	Wind Walk. You may use your action to wind-walk, rendering yourself invisible as per the invisibility spell, and increase your land speed by 10 feet. Unlike normal stances, you must continue moving (at least half your speed) or else this effect dissipates. Your first attack while performing Wind Walk is a critical hit, and ends the invisibility effect. This is a supernatural ability. Only warriors and monks may take this talent. Once this talent is used, it cannot be used again until after a short rest. 

Warrior Archetypes 
The warrior can choose from one of the below archetypes. 

Arms
You focus on wielding great weapons, dealing massive amounts of damage and cleaving through several creatures at once. Arms warriors are an inspiring sight on the battlefield.

Sweeping Strikes [Strike]. Starting at 3rd level, when you successfully attack and damage a creature with a melee attack, you may deal your Strength modifier in damage to any number of creatures you choose that are 5 feet away from it. 

Charge. Starting at 7th level, your charge carries a powerful impact. If you move at least 10 feet in a straight line right before attacking a creature and you hit it with the attack, that target must succeed on a Strength saving throw (DC 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Strength modifier) or be knocked prone. You cannot make use of your Extra Attacks feature if you use this ability.

Mortal Strike [Strike]. Starting at 10th level, you may severely wound a creature’s healing capabilities if you successfully apply a mortal strike. If a creature is affected by a Mortal Strike, they take 50% less healing from all sources for one minute. This is a strike effect that costs a bonus action. A creature cannot be affected by this ability more than once in 24 hours. 

Bloodthirst Strike [Strike]. Starting at 15th level, you may, after successfully damaging an enemy with a melee attack, you regain hit points equal to double your Proficiency bonus. You may instead grant half the benefit to any ally within 30 feet. This is a strike effect that costs a bonus action. The enemy must be a qualifying threat to you for you to use this ability. 

Weapon Specialization. Starting at 18th level, you gain an additional effect depending on the type of damage your melee weapon deals. This effect only triggers once per round, and only on a critical hit. All effects that allow a save refer to the target’s Stamina saving throw against a Strength based DC.
•	Slashing. You may perform two strike effects with a single bonus action. 
•	Bludgeoning. The target is stunned for one round. 
•	Piercing. The target takes 2d6 extra damage. This damage is not doubled. 

Fury
You equip yourself with two weapons, and slice your enemies to ribbons while shouting vengeance. Fury warriors make good party members, as inspiring shouts aid their allies.

Strike the Wound. Starting at 3rd level, whenever you hit the same enemy more than once in the same round, your weapon attacks score a critical hit on a roll one point lower (from 20 to 19-20). For example, hitting the same enemy twice increases the chance to score a critical hit from 20 (first hit) to 19-20 (second hit), to 18-20 (third hit). This reaches a minimum roll result of 15. 

Overpower. Starting at 7th level, if you miss an attack roll against an enemy, you are counted to have hit the enemy for the purposes of your Strike the Wound ability. 
Also, a number of times per short rest equal to your Stamina modifier, you may attack again if you miss an attack. This does not require a separate action from the one used to make the attack. If you make use of this ability, the target is not counted as if they were hit for the purposes of the Strike the Wound ability unless you successfully hit them. 

Battle Commands. Starting at 10th level, you gain the Shout talent for free (if you don’t already have it), and whenever you attack with your off-hand weapon as a bonus action, you maintain a shout for no cost.

Hellscream. Starting at 15th level, all hostile creatures within range of your shouts take Thunder damage equal to half your level whenever you shout or maintain one. They are entitled a Stamina saving throw to half damage opposed by your own Stamina. 

Bloody Ribbons. Starting at 18th level, you may make another attack against the same enemy whenever you land a critical hit against an enemy. This critical hit must from a dice roll result. After you make at least five attacks using this ability, you must rest before you can benefit from it again.

Protection
You are the forward vanguard, decking yourself with heavy armors and a reliable shield. Protection warriors deflect and guarding their allies from attacks, and return damage with interest. 

Block and Tackle. Starting at 3rd level, you may use a reaction to block a weapon attack that hits you, reducing the damage taken by 1d12 + your Stamina modifier. This requires a shield. If this reduces the damage to 0 points, you may use the same reaction to attack the target with an opportunity attack. You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Stamina bonus (minimum 2 uses). Once all uses are expended, they are restored after a short rest. 
You may expend two uses of this ability and benefit an ally within 5 feet of you with this ability instead of you, reducing the damage on them as described (and targeting whoever harmed them with an opportunity attack). If whoever struck your ally is not within your melee range for the opportunity attack, you may move up to 5 feet to deliver it. 

Sundering Strike [Strike]. Starting at 7th level, you may sunder an enemy’s armor, reducing their AC by a value equal to your Proficiency bonus (but never below that of their AC if unarmored). This effect remains until the armor is tended to with the appropriate artisans’ tools during a short rest. Once a creature is affected by this strike, they cannot be affected by it for 24 hours. 
This can be applied to natural armor, in which case tending to it does not require artisan tools, and is restored on a short rest. 

Vigilance. Starting at 10th level, your block and tackle ability blocks an additional 1d12 (for a total of 2d12 + your Stamina modifier). Whenever you perform an opportunity attack derived from your block talent, you can add one of the following effects.
•	Destructive Counter. Your opportunity attack deals an additional 2d6 damage. 
•	Disarming Counter. Your opportunity attack drops the enemy’s weapon. If they reach for it while threatened by you, you can make another attack of opportunity. 
•	Pushing Counter. Your opportunity attack pushes the enemy 5 feet away. 
•	Repositioning Counter. Your opportunity attack allows you to exchange places with an ally within 5 feet of you. 

Vanguard. Starting at 15th level, whenever you start your round with below half your maximum hit points and have no temporary hit points, you gain a number of temporary hit points equal to 1d12 + your Stamina modifier. 
Furthermore, using your block and tackle ability to benefit an ally expends one use of the ability, not two. 

Restored Strength. Starting at 18th level, you may use the Second Wind talent three times before requiring rest. Furthermore, whenever you use Second Wind, you gain resistance to any damage you take for one round after use, and advantage against any saving throw made against the first spell that affects you in the next minute. 
If you don’t already have the Second Wind talent, you gain it as a talent instead of improving it. 

Special and Racial Specializations
These are archetypes, domains, and specializations that have a special or racial restriction. These are rare, but often are quite powerful. 

Demon Hunter (Rogue)
Demon hunters are specialists in fighting demonic outsiders, and sacrifice both body and mind to gain alien and terrifying powers. Although most commonly found amongst the Night Elves (with the Night Elf Illidan Stormrage being the first known Demon Hunter) and the Illidari, the abilities can be learned by many who fight demons, such as secretive high elven organizations, human wizarding societies, or even draenei or orcish inquisitorial orders. Demon hunters typically utilize warglaives for combat (see equipment). 
Warlocks who turn against the Burning Legion may exchange their class to demon hunter on a 1:1 ratio, such as death knights or warlocks do with their previous classes of paladin or mage and shaman (respectively). This still requires being blinded. 
Rogues wishing to become demon hunters usually take the leap and the hunter’s favored enemy and dread ambusher talents.

Prerequisites. The demon hunter aspirant must be permanently blinded either by a spell, by a demon, or via use of a Mana Blade (see Equipment). The demon hunter must also have performed mana siphon against a demon. 

Corruption
You may pledge your soul as well, turning yourself into a demonic creature (permanently gaining the below Demonic Nature ability, and counting as the demonic creature type). 

Demonic Nature. You don’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. You are also immune to mundane and nonmagical poisons and diseases, and have advantage to effects that cause the exhausted and poisoned conditions. 
You can also speak Eredun and cannot be corrupted by it, as if the warlock feature of the same name. 

Also, a draenei who takes on the mantle of demon hunter may alter their Gift of the Naaru ability, casting the mind blast spell instead, as the draenei takes on the psychic powers of the Eredar in exchange of the holy powers of the Naaru. This extremely uncommon sacrifice also takes its toll on the draenei’s body, slowly morphing their appearance through extended exposure to fel magic to be more like the Eredar or a Broken Draenei.

DEMON HUNTER ROGUISH ARCHETYPE 
Demon Spellcasting. Drawing on fel magics not unlike those practiced by warlocks, you can cast spells that are normally cast by warlocks. You cast all spells drawn from the warlock spell list.

Cantrips
At 1st level, you know a number of cantrips equal to your proficiency bonus.

Preparing and Casting Spells
Each demon hunter level provides you with 0.5 a caster level in the Warlock class (1 at 3rd level). You follow the normal progression to unlock spell levels (see the table under the Mana section). You prepare the list of Warlock spells that are available for you to cast, choosing from the Warlock spell list. 
You can also change your list of prepared spells when you finish a long rest by consulting your spellbook. You otherwise follow the warlock’s rules for spellbooks, conjuring, and binding, however, most demon hunters inscribe their spells to their skin as tattoos rather than in grimoires, using expensive inks and difficult techniques. Your spellcasting ability is Charisma. 

Also, after mana siphoning a fiend, your weapons are treated as magical for 8 hours, as the residual fel energies are being used by you against the demons' defenses. If you ever kill a demon of CR 10 or above, any weapon you used for the deed can be treated as magical after 1 minute of focusing your power on it. This effect is permanent, but only manifests when the weapon is used by you. 

Suffused Sight. Also starting at 3rd level, you may choose to either gain Darkvision 60 feet (or increase the range of existing darkvision by 60 feet), or gain the spectral sight ability. 

Spectral Sight. Your sight is both enhanced and hindered. Within 100 feet, you have blindsight. Beyond this range, your sight is hazy, colorless, and unclear, imposing disadvantage on Spirit (Perception) checks. You can perceive certain things clearly (as if normal sight) regardless of distance, such as the following: celestials, fiends, undead, and any creature with an active mana pool. If a creature is disguised, you may roll a Spirit (Perception) check upon sight, and a successful check yields to you that you sense strange powers nearby (though it does not readily point out who without another ability check). 
At will, you may concentrate your sight as an action, and cast the detect magic spell. The range of the spell increases up to your blindsight range. 

Dark Metamorphosis. Starting at 9th level, your suffusion with demonic power almost overwhelms your original potential. You can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.
Furthermore, you gain the avatar form warlock spell for no cost if you didn’t already have it, and always have it prepared for no cost. Furthermore, you augment the spell in the following ways:
•	You gain the Mystic Blast feat for no cost, but must choose to deal fel damage. If you already have the feat, the ability deals 50% extra damage in this form.
•	You gain the benefits of the demon skin spell (spell level equal to the highest-level spell you can cast) for no cost. 
•	Your Strength and Charisma scores increases by 2 points (up to a maximum of 18 each).
•	You gain wings, horns, and claws. 
o	Wings. You can glide, and your jump distance is tripled (this can stack with the jump spell). 
For every 10 feet of distance you fall, you can glide 30 feet in any direction. You can also instead take no fall damage so long as you can exercise your wings. If you are restrained or otherwise encumbered, you cannot make use of your wings. 
o	Horns and Claws. You gain a horn and claw attack as an unarmed strike. These are light melee weapon attacks that deal 1d6 piercing and 1d4 slashing damage (respectively, plus your Strength or Agility as normal). These weapons are also magical (with +1 to attack and damage rolls). 

While your avatar form shape, you are treated as a fiend for all spell purposes (such as charm and dominate spells). This is considered a shapeshifting effect. 
You may choose one of the following features to remain in your normal form: wings, claws, or horns.
The chosen feature remains indefinitely. You can retract claws (if you choose to keep them indefinitely), but you cannot hide your wings (besides wrapping them around you as a cloak) or horns. Upon 13th and 17th level, you can choose another feature to make permanent (in the end, having wings, claws, and horns). 

Sorcerous Thirst. Starting at 13th level, whenever you perform mana siphon versus demons to drain their mana, you gain double the normal mana, and they suffer disadvantage to saving throws against the effect. 
You also gain the Essence Touch hunter talent, but can only affect demons with it. For instance, if you siphon a Felhound’s mana, you can utilize their mana burn innate ability, or a succubus’s sleep or modify memory spell if you siphon it instead. 

Dark Mastery. Starting at 17th level, you can access the demonic doom, gate, and foresight warlock spells as if 6th level spells, and can cast them normally. If you can access higher-level spells, you can cast one of the aforementioned spells once every long rest for no cost instead. 
Also, when you use your fel blast ability when metamorphosized, it deals 50% more damage, but requires 50% more mana in reserve (or 1.5 mana point per spell level). If you already have the Mystic Blast ability, it deals double damage when metamorphosized. 

Mountain King (Warrior)
The mountain kings, or thanes as they are known in Khaz Modan, are the mightiest dwarven warriors under the mountain. Wielding both enchanted warhammers and hand axes, these fierce fighters live to test themselves against worthy opponents. Unconcerned with their race's preoccupation with mechanical devices and mining precious minerals, Mountain Kings live only for battle. Dedicated to safeguarding the Alliance which saved their kingdom during the Second War, the mountain Kings can be counted upon to rally behind any banner that stands between freedom and the ever looming shadow of evil.
Mountain kings boast prodigious combat abilities. They are ferocious in melee combat, wielding the traditional weapons of their race to decimate their foes. Their attacks leave opponents stunned and reeling. 
While they do not focus their efforts on discovering the secrets of the titans, they have long known of a powerful spark within every Ironforge dwarf - and mountain kings draw upon this spark and fan it into a raging flame. They conjure magic hammers and axes to hurl at their targets, stunning and slowing them so they can get close enough to use their real weapons. They transform themselves into silver-sheened creatures of living stone, shrugging off all attacks and hacking through flesh and bone with frightening ease.
This archetype is restricted to dwarves and creatures who are of titanic descent. 

MOUNTAIN KING ARCHETYPE
Titanic Spark. Dwarven Avatar. Starting at 3rd level, you gain the ability to cast spells as a mage of an effective caster level equal to 0.5 your Mountain King level (minimum 0). You do require spellbooks, however, as the spells manifest in the form of inscriptions and engravings on your armor, weapons, or runes that you draw at the spell’s range (treat as tattoos), but otherwise use the same rules as the mage (effectively treating runes as mage tattoos). You also do not need to concentrate on the Stoneskin spell. 
You may cast spells from the abjuration, evocation, and transmutation schools, although you may only choose lightning or thunder-based spells when preparing evocation spells. Your spellcasting ability is Intelligence.
You may treat the investiture of stone spell as a 5th level spell instead of a 6th level spell, and stoneskin as a 3rd level spell instead of a 4th level spell. 

Thunderlord. Also starting at 3rd level, you gain the Thunder Clap warrior talent (if you didn’t already have it), and can use it a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus before requiring a rest, not once per rest. 

Stance of the Mountain. Starting at 7th level, you may enter a stance with a bonus action. So long as you are in this stance, you reduce the physical damage you take by 3 points, and gain 2 extra reactions. The stance ends if you choose to end it or if you move more than half your normal speed.
When executing a melee attack of opportunity while under the effects of this stance, you push the target 10 feet on a successful attack roll. 

Bleed and Bash. Starting at 10th level, when you land a critical hit with a slashing weapon, you reduce the target's speed to half for 1 hour or until the damage you dealt is fully healed. When you land a critical hit with a bludgeoning weapon, the target must succeed on a Stamina saving throw or be stunned for 1 round.

Titanic Avatar. Starting at 15th level, whenever you cast the spell stoneskin through your Titanic Spark spellcasting feature, the cost of the material component (regardless of the target) is 25 gp instead of 100, and you also gain the benefits of the enlarge spell without requiring concentration. 
Also, you may spend three days studying the defenses of a fortification, castle, or any type of defensive structure. At the end of the three days, you may use your Stance of the Mountain without spending a bonus action, and you may move your full speed without disrupting the stance, and ignore natural difficult terrain in the area with your movement, so long as it is part of the fortification (a natural barricade or debris that fell from it). 

Runeweaver (Monk)
Most monks are Pandaren, but others still have less structured beliefs, and channel runic power through tattoos or runes drawn upon their flesh. These runeweavers are rarely found, but have dwarven and tauren practitioners. 
The runeweaver is a mystic who sees the power and importance of ley lines. Moreover, those who study runes understand that these are not simply symbols of power — they are power. The runeweaver seeks to become one with the land, but not in the fashion of druids or shamans. Rather, the runeweaver desires to become a microcosm of the land, seeking to overlay his body with runes in the same fashion that the land itself is overlaid with patterns of ley lines and the echoes of the might of the great Titans.
The tradition itself dates back to the times of the ancient titans, mastered by the dwarves who learned such arts from their creators. As the centuries rolled past, most dwarves lost their heritage and their knowledge of this art. Tauren claim ancient traditions when passing down runic attunements, bringing closer dwarf, tauren, and pandaren by sheer curiosity to learn the truth. 
Most runeweavers are heavily tattooed with runic patterns — not simply the unique ones that form the basis for rune families, but the so-called “simple runes” as well. Simple runes mimic patterns of ley energy that appear, again and again, in the environment. These patterns occur in nature and are responsible for things such as the strength of a given type of stone, the ferocity of a given windstorm and the coolness of a given stream; when a runeweaver uses these patterns, he learns to channel his natural power into them at all times, attaining similar traits. 

Ki is commonly known as Runic Pulse with runeweavers, but functions the same way. 

Runic Attunement. When you choose this tradition at 3rd level, you learn magical disciplines that harness the power of the runic ley lines. An attunement requires you to spend ki points each time you use it. You know the Simple Runes discipline and one other runic attunement of your choice, which are detailed in the "Runic Attunements” section below. 
You learn one additional runic attunement of your choice at 6th, 11th, and 17th level.
Whenever you learn a new runic attunement, you can also replace one runic attunement that you already know with a different attunement. Some effects are strike effects, in which case they require a bonus action to manifest as well, and affect a target struck by you.
Ley Attunement. You may also replace an existing runic attunement by meditating near a center of ley power, such as a mana fountain, place of elemental strength (a great volcano, on a mountain, or near the Maelstrom), or similar effect the DM specifies (such as where ancient Elven Runestones stand, or near the mechanisms of the Titans). In all cases, this can be changed at the end of a long rest. Each area of ley attunement grants its own Runic Attunement. 
You can also burn some of your life force to manifest a runic attunement instead of spending Ki. You can spend hit dice (as if healing), but you do not gain hit points. Instead, each hit dice of healing you expend acts as if you spend 1 Ki point for a runic attunement effect. This usually manifests as smoke rising from runes you draw on your body. 

Spells and Ki Points
Monk Levels 	Maximum Ki Points for a Spell
5th—8th 	3
9th—12th 	4
13th—16th 	5
17th—20th 	6

Runic Attunements
The runic attunements are presented in alphabetical order. If a discipline requires a level, you must be that level in this class to learn the attunement. 

 
Burning Spirit Rune. You can spend 1 Ki point to cast the inner fire spell. 
Dispel Rune (6th level required). You can spend 3 Ki points to cast the dispel magic spell. You can spend 1 additional point to make this a strike effect that target a struck target. If you target a trap spell (such as glyph of warding or the symbol spell), you have advantage to your check. You also have advantage to checks to notice such runes. If you have the See Runes attunement, making the spell a strike effect costs no additional Ki. 
Energy Weaving Rune. You can spend 1 Ki point to cast the absorb elements spell. 
Energy Dispersal Rune (6th level required). You can spend 3 Ki points to cast the protection from energy spell on yourself. 
Flowing Water Rune (6th level required). You can spend 3 Ki points to cast the haste spell. 
Glyph Rune, Greater (17th level required). You can spend 7 Ki points to cast the symbol spell. Once this rune is cast, you cannot cast it again until after a short rest, regardless if you have enough Ki. 
Glyph Rune, Lesser (6th level required). You can spend 3 Ki points to cast the glyph of warding spell. If you choose a spell glyph, you can add any other rune you know to manifest upon triggering the glyph.
Runic Pattern (6th level required). You can cast the magic weapon spell, targeting yourself. You may also the spell on your unarmed attacks. The bonus increases to +2 with 4 Ki, and +3 with 6 Ki (limited to the maximum number of Ki points you can spend). 
Inner Beast Rune (6th level required). You can spend 2 Ki points to cast the enhance ability spell.
Inscribed Rune. Choose a rune that you can cast, that has a casting time of 1 action, and that can target you. You cast that spell, called the inscribed spell, as part of this action, expending the cost the rune, but the inscribed rune doesn't come into effect. Instead, it takes effect when a certain circumstance occurs. You describe that circumstance. 
For example, a contingency cast with the Mangroves Rune might stipulate that it comes into effect when you are subject to the paralyzed condition (or any or all of the conditions). You can have only one inscribed rune upon yourself. Also, the inscribed rune ends on you if its material component is ever not on your person. You can specify a command word (requires no action by yourself to activate). 
Ley Healing Rune. You can spend 1 Ki point to cast the riptide spell. 
Ley Line Link (11th level required). You can spend 5 Ki points to cast the teleportation circle spell, and can also teleport back to any area you meditated for a ley attunement (treating it as a teleportation circle for the purposes of this ability).
Leaping Sparks Rune. You can spend 1 Ki point to cast the jump spell. 
Oaks Rune (6th level required). You can spend 2 Ki points to cast the barkskin spell. 
Mangroves Rune (6th level required). You can spend 2 Ki points to cast the lesser restoration spell. If you are 17th level, you can spend 6 Ki points to cast the restoration spell.
Quiet Demise Rune. You can spend 1 Ki point to gain the Sneak Attack feature as a 1st level Rogue for 1 minute. This requires concentration. 
Raging Flames Rune. You can spend 1 Ki point to cast the longstrider spell. 
Safefall Rune. You can spend 1 Ki point to cast the Feather Fall spell on yourself. 
See Runes. You can spend 1 Ki point to cast the detect magic spell. 
Shattering Blow. You can spend 1 Ki point to cast shatter as a strike effect. You can also cast it normally
Simple Runes. Choose one of the following families of cantrips. You can cast these for no cost. You can change your suite of simple runes at the end of a short or long rest. 
•	Arcane. Mage hand, true strike
•	Earth. Mending, mold earth
•	Frost. frostbolt (strike only), frostbite (strike only)
•	Fire. Fire bolt (strike only), create bonfire
•	Light. Light, dancing lights (maximum range 10 ft.)
•	Ward. Blade ward, resistance (self only)
•	Wind. Gust, shocking grasp (strike only)
Twisted Arcana Rune (6th level required). You can spend 3 Ki points to cast counterspell. 
 

Other Runic Attunements. You may petition the DM to add further runic attunements, referring to the below table. After using a runic attunement that manifests 7th-level, you cannot use it again until after a short rest, regardless whether you have the Ki to cast it or not. 

 
Spell level	Ki	Minimum level
1		1	3
2		2	6
3		3	6
4		4	11
Spell level	Ki	Minimum level
5		5	11
6		6	17
7		7	17
 

Shadow Hunter (Hunter)
Troll shadow hunters are the highest authority of the jungle trolls. Their spirit powers both bless and curse, and they walk the line of dark and light in hope of saving the future of their people. Their dark gods, the Loa, channel themselves through the shadow hunters when they use their ceremonial Rush'kah masks. In some circles, Shadow Hunter is a title bestowed equally among hunters of this specialization and witch doctors. 
Like other practitioners of voodoo, shadow hunters deal with the darker aspects of the spirit world. Unlike witch doctors (who excel in channeling voodoo magic and alchemy), Shadow Hunters claim a strong bond with the Loa, animal spirits thought to be divine in nature. 
Able to channel the essence of some of these extremely potent beings - and often acting with their blessing, conduit, and mortal champions - shadow hunters gain special abilities only the Loa can grant. As they grow in experience, the shadow hunters' bond with the Loa strengthens and their connection to these powerful voodoo spirits eventually gives them the ability to curse and heal at a whim. The strongest shadow hunters can create a pit of shadow filled with terrible beings that can tear their enemies apart. 
This archetype is restricted to worshipers of the Loa, which are overwhelmingly trolls. Shadow hunters typically utilize Warglaives for combat (see equipment). 

SHADOWHUNTER ARCHETYPE
Loa Spellcasting. Starting upon gaining this archetype, you access the shaman’s spell list. You do not gain the increased spellcasting capabilities or access to higher spell levels, but you add all shaman spells of spell levels you can access to your hunter spell list (including totems, healing spells, and elemental spells). You may also add the darkness spell to your shared spell list. Your own sight is unaffected by your darkness spell.
Your spellcasting otherwise follows the same rules as the shaman class, although your totems (or spellbooks) are your masks.

Mask Magic. Starting from 3rd level, you can wear various Rush'kah masks can provide blessings, channeling the power of chosen Loa. You can spend 6 hours creating a suite of these magic masks (up to all the ones you know), and they have nearly negligible weight. So long as you have such masks, you can wear them with a bonus action, applying a special benefit as described below. Once a mask is used, it cannot be used again until after a long rest. 
•	Legba Mask. You cast the haste spell.
•	Lukou Mask. You add your Spirit modifier to the final number of hit points healed by your hunter or shaman spells. This can be added to the final damage to undead cured by said spells. This mask grants the benefit for one hour. 
•	Shango Mask. You add your Spirit modifier to the final number of damage points dealt by your hunter or shaman lightning spells. This mask grants the benefit for one hour.
If a mask is destroyed, it takes 1 hour per mask to create a new one from simple materials.

Voodoo Ritualist. Starting from 7th level, you may triple the casting time of your hunter spells via a magical (and often noisy) mask-dance to heighten it by one spell level. This increase does not stack with itself, but can increase the spell level beyond your normal maximum (cannot exceed 9th level). You can use this ability to heighten the spell level of a spell cast through a mask (such as the Legba or Bwonsamdi masks). For instance, if the spell’s casting time is 1 action, it costs 3 actions instead. If its casting time is 1 hour, it costs 3 hours, etc. This is applied to ritual spells normally. 

Advanced Mask Magic. Starting at 11th level, you can add new masks to your repertoire.
•	Bwonsamdi Mask. You treat the exorcism spell as a bonus spell that you prepared (hunter spell list). You may cast the spell normally or apply it as a strike effect. This benefit remains for one hour. This affects all undead except undead shadows. 
•	Ogoun and Dambala Masks. You can cast the polymorph spell. If you are later able to prepare the spell, it instead costs 2 less mana points (minimum 1) while the mask is active (this cancels out the penalty from the Loa spellcasting feature above). This is usually used to turn yourself into a snake, or turn your enemy into a frog or likewise helpless critter.
•	The Dark Mask. You cast the big bad voodoo spell. This mask also costs 6 mana points to use. 

Pit of Shadows. Starting on 15th level, whenever you cast the darkness spell, you can reduce its duration to Concentration (Partial), up to 1 minute. While enhanced this way, however, all spells you cast that deal shadow damage or that conjure shadows cost one less mana point (minimum 0), so long the spell does not target an area or a creature outside the darkness. If the darkness spell was heightened by your Voodoo Ritualist ability (making it more resilient against being defeated by light spells), then spells that deal shadow damage or conjure shadows are similarly heightened (as described under the spells’ descriptions). 
Once this feature is used, it cannot be used again until after a long rest. Alternatively, this ability can consume one of the uses of a mask you didn’t use yet. 

Spell Breaker (Warrior)
Elven warriors trained to disrupt and contort magical energies, the Spell Breakers are a valuable addition to the Alliance, and work well in concert with the High Elven magically-focused military. 
Spell Breakers can cast a small amount of spells, and mostly prefer abjurations such as Shield and Dispel Magic, and evocations such as Arcane Missile, and Mana Burn. 
This warrior martial archetype is restricted to elves, commonly High Elves and Blood Elves.

SPELLBREAKER ARCHETYPE
Spellcasting. When you reach 3rd level, you augment your martial prowess with the ability to cast spells. 

Cantrips. 
At 1st level, you know a number of cantrips equal to your proficiency bonus.

Preparing and Casting Spells
Each spell breaker level provides you with 0.5 levels in the mage class (or level 1 at 3rd level). You follow the normal progression to unlock spell levels (see the table under the Mana section). You prepare spells from the mage spell list, but only spells from the Abjuration, Divination, Evocation, or Transmutation schools. 
When you reach 7th, 8th, 14, and 20 level in this class, you can alter one existing spell to be a spell from any other magic school. 
Your spellcasting otherwise follows the same rules as the mage class with regards to spellbooks, conjuring and binding, and other concerns. Your spellcasting ability is Intelligence.

Spell Resistance. When you choose this archetype at 3rd level, you gain the ability to be exceptionally resistant to spells and spell-like abilities, gaining advantage versus all spells that allow for spell resistance. 
If you succeed in saving against a spell with both saving throws (the one granted by advantage as well as your normal one), you may use a reaction to absorb residual mana, gaining mana points equal to the spell’s level. This is a normal mana-restorative effect. 

Abjuring Knight. Starting at 7th level, you may cast the dispel magic spell with one less mana point, and always have it prepared. This does not count against the normal limit of spells prepared. 
You may also throw a two-bladed sword, treating it as a thrown weapon with a range of 10/30 feet. This may deliver melee strikes at range, and the two-bladed sword returns after the attack roll is resolved, but allowing for only one melee strike every round. 

Feedback. At 10th level, whenever you dispel a magical effect from a creature, you destroy 1 point of mana per spell level, dealing 2 arcane damage (as the mana burn spell). If you dispel an effect from an ally, you may direct the mana-burning effect to any hostile creature within 30 feet of you (though in this case they are entitled a Spirit saving throw). 
You may also cast dispel magic (as per Abjuring Knight) as a strike effect, as if you possessed the Spell Strike feat (if you don’t already have it). 

Steal Magic. At 15th level, you may transfer a dispelled magical effect to another eligible creature within 30 ft. as a free action. The new target is entitled a saving throw, or you must succeed on an attack roll to affect them (as if you cast the initial spell). This may be applied to sigil effects. 

Greater Spell Steal. Starting at 18th level, you always have the spell steal spell prepared, and does not count against the number of spells prepared. The spell also costs 1 less mana point for you. 

Witch Doctor (Shaman)
A curious blend of alchemy and shamanistic spirit magic, witch doctors are most common among trolls, though few orcs take up the art, especially those who wish to broaden their skill set with the power of alchemy. Skilled at not only simply brewing potions and alchemical goods, but also at awakening the spirits of the ingredients that go into his goods, a witch doctor at work can be unsettling. Between crooning and chanting to the herbs and animal parts that go into their brew, shaking rattles to supposedly ‘wake up the spirits’, to bursting into dance to appease them and make them favor him, a witch doctor inspires fear, respect, and confusion. 
The witch doctor's arcane magical art is formed from the ability to twist and turn nature through a crude yet effective science called juju. 
Witch doctors teach that worthy trolls receive dominion over various aspects of nature upon their death - whether plants, weather, beasts, or even disease. When witch doctors exhibit their supernatural powers to cure the sick, control nature, or assist in battle, it is said that ancestral spirits are riding them.
Witch doctors usually name their totems ‘Wards’, and use masks as their spellbooks, although their mask mojo is not as strong as shadow hunters, who are more martial in nature. 

WITCH DOCTOR ART
Witch Doctor Art Spells
Level	Spells
1st	Death pact, dissonant whispers
3rd	Berserker rage, divine shield (or big voodoo)
5th	Banshee’s curse, fear
7th	Drain life, polymorph (or ghost wolf)
9th	Big bad voodoo, eyebite

Weird Juju. Starting at 1st level, you gain the Alchemy ability, and proficiency in both Alchemist’s Supplies and the Poisoner’s Kit. You can choose up to one alchemist spells to cast as a potion, and gain access to another alchemist spell whenever you level up. These spells can only be made into potions (as if you were an alchemist). You can scribe potion formulae into your totem, and do not require a formula book. 

Channel Elements: Voodoo Witchery. At 2nd level, you can spend a Channel Elements use to re-awaken fading magics. This can extend concentration spells for one more round, and reset the durations of a spell or potion whose duration ended or was dispelled, including sigils or totems, but not strikes or shots. If the duration ended normally, it regains half the duration it once had. This cannot affect instantaneous spells or spells with a duration more than 24 hours. 
This usually involves dancing and waving fetishes at the target. 

Dark Sacrifice. At 6th level, you may end any conjure spell you have active with a bonus action, and ignite the residual magic. You may center an explosion with a radius of 10 feet at the point where your conjured creature was last present that deals 1d8 damage per spell level, halved on a successful Stamina saving throw. Half the damage is acid, and the other half is poison. You may use this ability on a target of a successful death pact spell. 
If you conjured multiple creatures, the explosion takes place at each of the spaces. The damage does not stack, unless a creature occupies multiple spaces and is in the area of multiple blasts. If you used Voodoo Witchery on the same concentration spell, the saving throw is done with disadvantage.

Personal Mojo. Starting at 8th level, you gain proficiency in magically-infused potions beyond regular science. You gain the following abilities, which you can bestow upon any potion you make or handle for at least 1 minute. 
•	Personalized Mojo. You can personalize a potion for a specific creature by mixing a part of them (hair, nail clippings, a tear, etc.) into it. This potion functions only for the target, and is treated as if heightened one spell level (this can exceed your normal maximum spell level). If the potion has no benefit when targeting a creature (such as an area of effect spell or a potion that conjures a creature), or when heightened, the potion can instead be reused with a successful DC 15 Intelligence check with Alchemist’s Supplies, so far as you use an action when adjacent to the potion (or target) within 1 minute of it being used. This can be attempted once. 
•	Rage Mojo. You imbue your potion a spirit of rage and battle. When the potion is consumed, the target is also enraged, as the berserker rage spell, for the full duration (or until you command it to end as a bonus action or reaction). The target does not suffer a level of exhaustion if it succeeds on a Stamina saving throw against your Spell DC at the end of the rage. 
•	Spirit Mojo. You augment the potion with a spirit of balance, allowing you to mix two potions to retain the benefits of both (as the Proper Sync miscibility result), so long as both potions have the same quality. This can be done once per short rest. 
•	Shaka Mojo. You augment the potion with a spirit of might. When you roll for damage or healing with the potion, it deals the maximum effect instead, so long as you use it. You may have only one shaka mojo potion active at any given time. 
•	Strange Mojo. This potion houses a tiny, wild spirit. When this potion is consumed with other ones, roll twice for miscibility and choose your favored result. This stacks with other re-rolls of miscibility. You can only have one strange mojo potion active at any given time. 

Spiritual Intervention. When you reach level 17, you can invoke the spirits of Loa to aid you. You may spend your action and bonus action in a ritualistic dance. At the start of your turn in the next round, you can change a prepared spell you have to any other spell on the shaman spell list of a level you can cast. Once this feature is used a number of times equal to your Spirit bonus, it cannot be used again until you complete a long rest. 
If you use of your elemental intervention ability, you can choose any other spell list instead of only the shaman spell list, but the spell you choose must be one spell level lower than the spell you altered. This costs the same mana cost as the original spell. This spell remains prepared for 8 hours or until cast, after which it fades and your original altered spell returns. This counts as a successful use of the elemental intervention ability, and does not require a roll to succeed. 

 
Bound Companions
 
Characters’ class abilities sometimes provide companions. Companions are creatures that have lower challenge rating than the character, and join the character in their adventures free of charge. 
These creatures do not grant XP when killed, and do not consume XP when fighting, but are effectively bound to the character who has the ability, leveling up with them in some capacity (gaining hit dice, ability score increases, etc., as detailed in the class entry). 

The ability that provides the bound companion determines the creature type (usually beast), the CR, and whether the companion gains special abilities. 

Controlling the Companion 
The companion obeys its master’s commands as best as it can. It takes its turn on its master’s initiative. 
On the master’s turn, the companion can be verbally commanded where to move (no action required by you) or what to do. If the creature has a special bond, the master may or may not be able to command it telepathically, depending on the bond’s description. 
Bound companions otherwise act on their own, unless given a clear command from their master, in which case they fulfill the command as best as they can. 
The master is always aware of the bound companion’s normal course of action. If the master is incapacitated or absent, the companion acts as it normally would, but also protects its master and itself. 
For example, a hunter with a panther companion is attacked in an ambush. The panther, if commanded to fight, would normally attack the weakest enemy from behind. If the hunter uses an attack to command the panther to fight in sync with him, the panther obeys and fights as its master wishes.